US 2019/0029980 A1
15

clonidine analog, and dantrolene. Examples of PDE 5 inhibi-
tors include, but are not limited to, tadalaﬁl, sildenaﬁl and
vardenaﬁl.

[0149] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a plurality of active ingredients comprising
(1) one or more PG pathway inhibitors and (2) one or more
other active ingredients selected from the group consisting
of analgesics, antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretics, spasmo-
lytics, PDE 5 inhibitors and zolpidem. In some embodi-
ments, the plurality of active ingredients are formulated for
immediate-release. In other embodiments, the plurality of
active ingredients are formulated for extended-release. In
other embodiments, the plurality of active ingredients are
formulated for delayed-release. In other embodiments, the
plurality of active ingredients are formulated for both imme-
diate-release and extended-release (e.g., a ﬁrst portion of
each active ingredient is formulated for immediate-release
and a second portion of each active ingredient is formulated
for extended-release). In yet other embodiments, some of the
plurality of active ingredients are formulated for immediate-
release and some of the plurality of active ingredients are
formulated for extent ed-release (e,g., active ingredients A,
B, C are formulated for immediate-release and active ingre-
dients C and D are formulated for extended-release). In
some other embodiments, the plurality of active ingredients
are formulated for de ayed-extended-release.

[0150] In certain embodiments. the pharmaceutical com-
position comprises an immediate-release component and an
extended-release com onent. The immediate-release com-
ponent may comprise one or more active ingredients
selected from the group consisting of PG pathway inhibitors,
analgesics, antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretics, spasmolyt-
ics, PDE 5 inhibitors and zolpidem. The extended-release
component may com rise one or more active ingredients
selected from the group consisting of PG pathway inhibitors,
analgesics, antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretics, spasmolyt-
ics, PDE 5 inhibitors and zolpidem. In some embodiments,
the immediate-release component and the extended-release
component have exactly the same active ingredients. In
other embodiments, tie immediate-release component and
the extended-release component have different active ingre-
dients, In yet other embodiments, the immediate-release
component and the extended-release component have one or
more common active ingredients. In some other embodi-
ments, the immediate-release component and/or the
extended-release component is further coated with a
delayed-release coating, such as an enteric coating. In other
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises
two or more active ingredients formulated as two extended-
release components, each providing a different extended-
relwse proﬁle. For example, a ﬁrst extended-release com-
ponent releases a ﬁrst active ingredient at a ﬁrst release rate
and a second extended-release component releases a second
active ingredient at a second release rate.

[0151] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises an immediate-release component and a
delayed-release component. In other embodiments, the phar-
maceutical composition comprises two or more active ingre-
dients formulated as two delayed-release components, each
providing a different delayed-release proﬁle For example, a
ﬁrst delayed-release component releases a ﬁrst active ingre-
dient at a ﬁrst time point, and a second delayed-release
component releases a second active ingredient at a second
time point.

 

Jan. 31, 2019

[0152] The components in a combined release proﬁle
formulation (e.g., formulations with a combination of an
immediate-release component and an extended-release com-
ponent, a combination of an immediate-release component
and a delayed-release component, a combination of an
immediate-release component, a delayed-release compo-
nent, and an extended-release component, a combination of
two or more delayed-release components, or a combination
of two or more extended-release components) may contain
the same active ingredient(s) or different active ingredient
(s), In some embodiments, the immediate-release compo-
nent may provide about 1% to about 80% of the total dosage
of the active agent(s) to be delivered by the pharmaceutical
formulation. In some embodiments, the combined release
proﬁle formulation contains an immediate—release compo-
nent and the immediate-release component provide about
1% to about 90%, about 10% to about 90%, about 20% to
about 90%, about 30% to about 90%, about 40% to about
90%, about 50% to about 90%, about 60% to about 90%,
about 70% to about 90% or about 80% to about 90% of the
total dosage of each active ingredient to be delivered by the
formulation. In altemate embodiments, the immediate-re-
lease component provides up to about 10%, 20%, 30%,
40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% or 90% of the total dosage of
each ingredient to be delivered by the formulation

[0153] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical formu-
lation comprises an active core comprised of one or more
inert particles, each in the form of a bead, pellet, pill,
granular particle, microcapsule, microsphere, microgranule,
nanocapsule, or nanosphere coated on its surfaces with
drugs in the form of erg, a drug-containing ﬁlm-forming
composition using, for example, ﬂuid bed techniques or
other methodologies known to those of skill in the art. The
inert particle can be of various sizes. so long as it is large
enough to remain poorly dissolved, Alternatively, the active
core may be prepared by granulating and milling and/or by
extrusion and spheronization of a polymer composition
containing the drug substance.

[0154] The amount of drug in the core will depend on the
dose that is required and typically varies from about 5 to 90
weight %. Generally, the polymeric coating on the active
core will be from about 1 to 50% based on the weight of the
coated particle, depending on the lag time and type of
release proﬁle required and/or the polymers and coating
solvents chosen. Those skilled in the art will be able to select
an appropriate amount of drug for coating onto or incorpo-
rating into the core to achieve the desired dosage. In one
embodiment, the inactive core may be a sugar sphere or a
buifer crystal or an encapsulated buffer crystal such as
calcium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, furnaric acid, tar-
taric acid, which alters the microenvironment of the drug to
facilitate its release.

[0155] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a delayed-release component formed by
coating a water solublejdispersible drug-containing particle,
such as a bead, with a mixture of a water insoluble polymer
and an enteric polymer, wherein the water insoluble polymer
and the enteric polymer may be present at a weight ratio of
4:1 to 1:1, and the total weight of the coatings is 10 to 60
weight % based on the total weight of the coated beads. The
drug layered beads may optionally include an inner disso-
lution rate controlling membrane of ethylcelluloser The
composition of the outer layer, as well as the individual
weights of the inner and outer layers of the polymeric
US 2019/0029980 A1

membrane are optimized for achieving desired circadian
rhythm release proﬁles for a given active, which are pre-
dicted based on in vitro/in vivo correlations.

[0156] In other embodiments, the formulations comprise a
mixture of immediate-release drug-containing particles
without a dissolution rate controlling polymer membrane
and delayed release beads exhibiting, for example, a lag time
of 2-4 hours following oral administration, thus providing a
two-pulse release proﬁle. In yet other embodiments, the
formulations comprise a mixture of two types of delayed-
release beads: a ﬁrst type that exhibits a lag time of 1-3 hours
and a second type that exhibits a lag time of 4-6 hours. In yet
other embodiments, the formulations comprise a mixture of
two types of release beads: a ﬁrst type that exhibits imme-
diate-release and a second type that exhibits a lag time of 1-4
hours followed with extended-release.

[0157] In some embodiments, the formulations are
designed with a release proﬁle such that a fraction of the
active ingredient(s) (e.g., 10-80%) is released immediately
or within two hours of administration, and the rest is
released over an extended period of time (e.g., over a period
of 2-24 hours), In other embodiments, the formulations are
designed with a release proﬁle such that one active ingre-
dient (e.g., an analgesic) are released immediately or within
two hours of administration, and one or more other active
ingredients (e.g., a PG pathway inhibitor) are released over
an extended period of time (e.g., over a period of 2-24
hours).

[0158] The pharmaceutical composition may be adminis-
tered daily or administered on an as needed basis. The
pharmaceutical composition may be administered orally,
intravenously, or intramuscularly. In preferred embodi-
ments, the pharmaceutical composition is administered
orally. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composi-
tion is administered by retrograde perfusion through the
urinary tract. In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition is administered by direct injection into bladder
muscle.

[0159] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition is administered daily, twice a day or three times a day.
In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition is
administered every other day, every 3 days, every 4 days,
every 4 days, every 5 days, every 6 days, every week, every
2 weeks, every 3 weeks, every month, every 2 months or
every 3 months.

[0160] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition is administered at bedtime. In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutical composition is administered within about
two hours before bedtime, preferably within about one hour
before bedtime. In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical
composition is administered about 2-4 hours before bedtime.
In a further embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is
administered at least 4 hours before bedtime.

[0161] The appropriate dosage (“therapeutically eﬁective
amount”) of the active ingredient(s) in the immediate-
release component, the extended-release component, the
delayed-release component or delayed-extended-release
component will depend, for example, on the severity and
course of the condition, the mode of administration, the
bioavailability of the particular ingredient(s), the age and
weight of the patient, the patient’s clinical history and
response to the active agent(s), discretion of the physician,
etc.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0162] As a general proposition, the therapeutically eﬁec-
tive amount of the PG pathway inhibitor(s) in the immedi-
ate-release component, the delayed-release component, the
extended-release component or the delayed-extended-re-
lease component is administered in the range of about 1
ug/kg body weight/day to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day
whether by one or more administrations, In some embodi-
ments, the range of each active agent administered daily in
a single dose or in multiple does is from about 1 [Lg/kg body
weight/day to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day, 1 ug/ g
body weight/day to about 30 mg/kg body weight/day, l
ug/kg body weight/day to about 10 mg/kg body weight/da ,
l ug/kg body weight/day to about 3 mg/kg body weight/da ,
1 ug/kg body weight/day to about 1 mg/kg body weightjday,
1 pig/kg body weight/day to about 300 pig/kg body weig 11/
day, l [Lg/kg body weight/day to about 100 [Lg/kg body
weight/day, 1 ug/kg body weight/day to about 30 ug/kg body
weight/day, 1 ug/kg body weight/day to about 10 ug/kg body
weight/day, 1 [Lg/kg body weight/day to about 3 pig/kg body
weight/day, 10 pig/kg body weight/day to about 100 mg/(g
body weig t/day, 10 ug/kg body weight/day to about 30
mg/kg body weightjday, 10 [Lg/kg body weight/day to about
10 mg/kg ody weight/day, 10 ug/kg body weight/day to
about 3 mg/kg body weight/day, 10 ug/kg body weight/day
to about 1 mg/kg body weight/day, 10 ug/kg body weig t/
day to about 300 [Lg/kg body weight/day, 10 pig/kg body
weight/day to about 100 pig/kg body weight/day, 10 [Lg/(g
body weig t/day to about 30 [Lg/kg body weight/day, 30
[Lg/kg body weightjday to about 100 mg/kg body weightjday,
30 rig/kg body weight/day to about 30 mg/kg body weig t/
day, 30 ug/kg body weight/day to about 10 mykg body
weight/day, 30 ug/kg body weight/day to about 3 mg/ g
body weigit/day, 30 [Lg/kg body weight/day to about 1
mgﬁrg body weigitjday, 30 [Lg/kg body weight/day to about
300 [Lg/kg body weight/day, 30 ug/kg body weight/day to
about 100 g/kg Jody weight/day, 100 ug/kg body weigit/
day to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day, 100 [lg/kg body
weight/day to about 30 mg/kg body weight/day, 100 [Lg/(g
body weig‘it/day to about 10 mg/kg body weight/day, 100
pig/kg body weigit/day to about 3 mg/kg body weightjday,
100 ug/kg nody weight/day to about 1 mg/kg body weig 11/
day, 100 ug/kg body weight/day to about 300 [Lg/kg body
weight/day, 300 ug/kg body weight/day to about 100 mg/ g
body weigt/day, 300 ug/kg body weight/day to about 30
mg/kg body weig 1t/day, 300 pig/kg body weight/day to about
10 mg/kg nody weight/day, 300 [Lg/kg body weight/day to
about 3 mg/kg body weight/day, 300 [Lg/kg body weight/day
to about 1 mg/kg ody weight/day, 1 mg/kg body weight/day
to about 100 mg/ g body weight/day, 1 rug/kg body weight/
day to about 30 mg/kg body weight/day, 1 mg/kg body
weight/day to about 10 mg/kg body weight/day, 1 mg/kg
body weight/day to about 3 mg/kg body weight/day, 3 mg/kg
body weight/day to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day, 3
mg/kg body weig it/day to about 30 mg/kg body weightjday,
3 mg/kg body weightjday to about 10 mg/kg body weith
day, 10 mg/kg body weight/day to about 100 mykg body
weight/day, 10 mg/kg body weight/day to about 30 mg/kg
body weight/day or 30 mg/kg body weight/day to about 100
mg/kg body weight/day.

[0163] As a general proposition, the therapeutically eﬁec-
tive amount of the analgesic agent(s) in the immediate-
release component, the delayed-release component, the
extended-release component or the delayed-extended-re-
lease component is administered in the range of about 10
US 2019/0029980 A1

isolated by enzymatic digestion followed by puriﬁcation on
a Percoll gradient. Brieﬂy, bladders from 10 mice were
minced with scissors to ﬁne slurry in 10 m1 of digestion
buffer (RPMI 1640, 2% fetal bovine serum, 05 mg/ml
collagenase, 30 rig/ml DNase). Bladder slurries were enzy-
matically digested for 30 minutes at 37° C. Undigested
fragments were thither dispersed through a cell-trainer. The
cell suspension was pelleted and added to a discontinue
20%, 40%. and 75% Percoll gradient for puriﬁcation on
mononuclear cells. Each experiment used 50-60 bladders
[0294] After washes in RPMI 1640, bladder cells were
resuspended RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10% fetal
bovine serum, 15 mM HEPES, 2 mM L—glutamine, 100
U/ml penicillin, and 100 ug/ml of streptomycin and seeded
in clear-bottom black 96-well cell culture microculture
plates at a cell density of 3x10“ cells per well in 100 Cells
were cultured at 37° C. in a 5% CO2 atmosphere.

In Vitm Treatment of Cells with Analgesics

[0295] Bladder cells were treated with analgesic solutions
(50 [Ll/well) either alone or together with carbachol (10-
Molar, 50 til/well), as an example of non-inﬂammatory
stimuli, or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Salmonella typhimu-
rium (l ug/ml, 50 pLI/well), as an example of non-inﬂam-
matory stimuli. When no other effectors were added to the
cells, 50 pl of RPMI 1640 without fetal bovine serum were
added to the wells to adjust the ﬁnal volume to 200
[0296] After 24 hours of culture, 150 pl of culture super-
natants were collected, spun down for 2 min at 8,000 rpm at
4° C. to remove cells and debris, and stored at —70° C. for
analysis of Prostaglandin E2 (PGEZ) responses by ELISA.
Cells were ﬁxed, permeabilized, and blocked for detection
of Cyclooxygenase-Z (COX2) using a ﬂuorogenic substrate.
In selected experiment cells were stimulated 12 hours in
vitro for analysis of COX2 responses.

Analysis of COX2 Responses

[0297] COX2 responses were analyzed by a Cell-Based
ELISA using human/mouse total COX2 immunoassay
(R&D Systems), following the instructions of the manufac-
turer. Brieﬂy, aﬂer cells ﬁxation and permeabilization, a
mouse anti-total COX2 and a rabbit anti-total GAPDH were
added to the wells of the clear-bottom black 96-well cell
culture microculture plates. After incubation and washes, an
HRP-conjugated anti-mouse lgG and an AP-conjugated
anti-rabbit lgG were added to the wells. Following another
incubation and set of washes, the HRP- and AP—ﬂuorogenic
substrates were added. Finally, a Victor® V multilabel plate
reader (PerkinElmer) was used to read the ﬂuorescence
emitted at 600 nm (COX2 ﬂuorescence) and 450 nm
(GAPDH ﬂuorescence). Results are expressed as relative
levels of total COX2 as determined by relative ﬂuorescence
unit (RFUs) and normalized to the housekeeping protein
GAPDH.

Analysis of PGE2 Responses

[0298] Prostaglandin E2 responses were analyzed by a
sequential competitive ELISA (R&D Systems). More spe-
ciﬁcally, culture supernatants or PGE2 standards were added
to the wells of a 96-well polystyrene micmplate coated with
a goat anti-mouse polyclonal antibody. After one hour
incubation on a microplate shaker, an HRP-conjugated
PGEZ was added and the plates were incubated for an
additional two hours at room temperature. The plates were

Jan. 31, 2019

then washed and HRP substrate solution added to each well.
The color was allowed to develop for 30 minutes, and the
reaction stopped by the addition of sulfuric acid before
reading the plate at 450 nm with wavelength correction at
570 nm. Results are expressed as mean pgml of PGE2.

Other Assays

[0299] The release of PGHZ; PGE, Prostacydin; Throm-
boxane; IL-10; IL-6; and TNF-a; the production of cAMP
and cGMP; the production of IL-10, IL-6, TNF-a, and
COX2 mRNA; and surface expression of CD80, CD86, and
MHC class II molecules are determined as described in
Example 2.

Results

Analgesics Inhibit COX2 Responses of Mouse Bladder
Cells to an lnﬂarnmatory Stimulus

[0300] Several analgesics (acetaminophen. aspirin, ibu-
profen, and naproxen) were tested on mouse bladder cells at
the concentration of 5 [1M or 50 M to determine whether
the analgesics could induce COX2 responses. Analysis of
24-hour cultures showed that none of the analgesics tested
induced COX2 responses in mouse bladder cells in vitro.
[0301] The eﬁect of these analgesics on the COX2
responses of mouse bladder cells to carbachol or LPS
stimulation in vitro was also tested. As indicated in Table l,
the dose of carbachol tested has no signiﬁcant effect on
COX2 levels in mouse bladder cells. On the other hand, LPS
signiﬁcantly increased total COX2 levels. Interestingly,
acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen could all
suppress the etfect of LPS on COX2 levels. The suppressive
elfect of the analgesic was seen when these drugs were
tested at either 5 uM or 50 MM (Table 4).

TABLE 4

coxz expression by mouse bladder cells alter in
vitro stimulation and treatment With anal eslc

 

Total COX2 levels

Stimulus Analgesrc (Normalized RFUs)
None None 158 e 18
Carbachol (mM) None 149 e 21
LPS (1 [lg/ml) None 420 e 26
LPS (1 [lg/ml) Acetaminophen (5 M) 275 e 12
LPS (1 ng/rni) Aspirin (5 M) 240 2: 17
LPS (1 [lg/ml) Ibuprofen (5 nix/1)) 253 2: 32
LPS (1 [lg/ml) Naproxen (5 nM) 234 2: 11
LPS (1 ng/ml) Acetaminophen (50 nM) 243 2: 15
LPS (1 pg/ml) Aspirin (50 M) 258 a: 21
LPS (1 pg/ml) Ibuprofen (50 mm 266 a: 19
LPS (1 pg/ml) Naproxen (50 MA) 279 e 23

Analgesics Inhibit PGE2 Responses of Mouse Bladder Cells
to an Inﬂammatory Stimulus

[0302] The secretion of PGE2 in culture supematants of
mouse bladder cells was measured to determine the biologi-
cal signiﬁcance of the alteration of mouse bladder cell
COX2 levels by analgesics. As shown in Table 5, PGE2 was
not detected in the culture supematants of unstimulated
bladder cells or bladder cells cultured in the presence of
carbachol. Consistent with COX2 responses described
above, stimulation of mouse bladder cells with LPS induced
US 2019/0029980 A1

4:1 to 1:2, preferably the polymers are present at a ratio of
about 1:1, The water insoluble polymer typically used is
ethylcellulose.

[0143] Exemplary water insoluble polymers include eth-
ylcellulose, polyvinyl acetate (Kollicoat SR#OD from
BASF), neutral copolymers based on ethyl acrylate and
methylmethacrylate, copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic
acid esters with quaternary ammonium groups such as
EUDRAGIT® NE, RS and RS30D, RL or RL30D, and the
like. Exemplary water soluble polymers include low
molecular weight HPMC, HPC, methylcellulose, polyethyl-
ene glycol (PEG of molecular weight>3000) at a thickness
ranging from 1 weight % up to 10 weight % depending on
the solubility of the active in water and the solvent or latex
suspension based coating formulation used The water
insoluble polymer to water soluble polymer may typically
vary from 95:5 to 60:40, preferably from 80:20 to 65:35. In
some embodiments, AMBERLITETM IRP69 resin is used as
an extended-release carrieri AMBERLITETM IRP69 is an
insoluble, strongly acidic, sodium form cation exchange
resin that is suitable as carrier for cationic (basic) sub-
stances, In other embodiments, DUOLITETM APl43/1093
resin is used as an extended-release carrier. DUOLITETM
AP143/ l 093 is an insoluble, strongly basic, anion exchange
resin that is suitable as a carrier for anionic (acidic) sub-
stances. When used as a drug carrier, AMBERLITETM
IRP69 or/and DUOLITETM AP143/1093 resin provides a
means for binding medicinal agents onto an insoluble poly-
meric matrix. Extended-release is achieved through the
formation of resin-drug complexes (dnrg resinates). The
drug is released from the resin in Vivo as the drug reaches
equilibrium with the high electrolyte concentrations, which
are typical of the gastrointestinal tract More hydrophobic
drugs will usually elute from the resin at a lower rate, owing
to hydrophobic interactions with the aromatic structure of
the cation exchange system.

[0144] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition is formulated for oral administration, Oral dosage
forms include, for example, tablets, capsules, and caplets
and may also comprise a plurality of granules, beads,
powders, or pellets that may or may not be encapsulated,
Tablets and capsules represent the most convenient oral
dosage forms, in which case solid pharmaceutical carriers
are employed.

[0145] In a delayed-release formulation, one or more
barrier coatings may be applied to pellets, tablets, or cap-
sules to facilitate slow dissolution and concomitant release
of drugs into the intestine. Typically, the barrier coating
contains one or more polymers encasing, surrounding, or
forming a layer, or membrane around the therapeutic com-
position or active core. In some embodiments, the active
agents are delivered in a formulation to provide delayed-
release at a pre-determined time following administration,
The delay may be up to about 10 minutes, about 20 minutes,
about 30 minutes, about 1 hour, about 2 hours, about 3 hours,
about 4 hours, about 5 hours, about 6 hours, or longer

[0146] Various coating techniques may be applied to gran-
ules, beads, powders or pellets, tablets, capsules or combi-
nations thereof containing active agents to produce different
and distinct release proﬁles. In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutical composition is in a tablet or capsule form
containing a single coating layer. In other embodiments, the
pharmaceutical composition is in a tablet or capsule form
containing multiple coating layers. In some embodiments,

Jan. 31, 2019

the pharmaceutical composition of the present application is
formulated for extended-release or delayed extended-release
of up to 100% of the active ingredient

[0147] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition of the present application is formulated for a two-
phase extended-release or delayed two-phase extended-re-
lease characterized by an “immediate-release” component
that is released within two hours of administration and an
“extended-release” component which is released over a
period of 2-12 hours, In some embodiments, the “immedi-
ate-release” component provides about 1-90% of the total
dosage of the active agent(s) arid the “extended-release”
component provides 10-99% of the total dosage of the active
agent(s) to be delivered by the pharmaceutical formulation.
For example, the immediate-release component may provide
about 10-90%, or about 10%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%,
45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85% or 90%
of the total dosage of the active agent(s) to be delivered by
the pharmaceutical formulation, The extended-release com-
ponent provides about 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%,
40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%,
90%, 95% or 99% of the total dosage of the active agent(s)
to be delivered by the formulation, In some embodiments,
the immediate-release component and the extended-release
component contain the same active ingredient. In other
embodiments, the immediate-release component and the
extended-release component contain diﬁerent active ingre-
dients (e.g,, one PG pathway inhibitor in one component and
another PG pathway inhibitor in another component) In
some embodiments, the immediate-release component and
the extended—release component each contains a PG path-
way inhibitor and an analgesic selected from the group
consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen sodium, indo-
methacin, nabumetone, and acetaminophen, In other
embodiments, the immediate-release component and/or the
extended-release component further comprises one or more
additional active agents selected from the groups consisting
of an antimuscarinic agent, an antidiuretic, a spasmolytic, an
inhibitor of phosphodiesterase type (PDE 5 inhibitor) and
zolpidem,

[0148] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a plurality of active ingredients selected
from the group consisting of PG pathway inhibitors, anal-
gesics, antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretics, spasmolytics,
PDE 5 inhibitors and zolpidem. Examples of antimuscarinic
agents include, but are not limited to, oxybutynin, solifena-
cin, darifenacin, fesoterodine, tolterodine, trospium, atro-
pine, and tricyclic antidepressants, Examples of antidiuretics
include, but are not limited to, antidiuretic hormone (ADH),
angiotensin II, aldosterone, vasopressin, vasopressin ana-
logs (eig,, desmopressin argipressin, lypressin, felypressin,
ornipressin, terlipressin); vasopressin receptor agonists,
atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and C-type natriuretic pep-
tide (CNP) receptor (i.e., NPR], NPR2, and NPR3) antago-
nists (e.g,, HS-l42-l, isatin, [Asu7,23']b-ANP-(7-28)],
anantin, a cyclic peptide from Streptomycer coemlescens,
and 3612 monoclonal antibody); somatostatin type 2 recep-
tor antagonists (e.g,, somatostatin), pharmaceutically-ac-
ceptable derivatives, and analogs, salts, hydrates, and sol-
vates thereof. Examples of spasmolytics include, but are not
limited to, carisoprodol, benzodiazepines, baclofen,
cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone, methocarbamol, clonidine,
US 2019/0029980 A1
13

polysaccharides composed of condensed glucose units such
as diester cross-linked polyglucan; carbomers having a
viscosity of 3,000 to 60,000 mPas as a 0.5%—1% w/v
aqueous solution; cellulose ethers such as hydroxypropyl-
cellulose having a viscosity of about 1000-7000 mPa s as a
1% w/v aqueous solution (25° C); hydroxypropyl methyl-
cellulose having a viscosity of about 1000 or higher, pref-
erably 2,500 or higher to a maximum of 25,000 mPas as a
2% w/v aqueous solution; polyvinylpyrrolidone having a
viscosity of about 300-700 mPas as a 10% w/v aqueous
solution at 20° C.; and combinations thereof

[0132] Alternatively, the release time of the drugs can be
controlled by a disintegration lag time depending on the
balance between the tolerability and thickness of a water
insoluble polymer membrane (such as ethyl cellulose, EC)
containing predeﬁned micropores at the bottom of the body
and the amount of a swellable excipient, such as low
substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose (L-HPC) and sodium
glycolate. After oral administration, GI ﬂuids permeate
through the micropores. causing swelling of the swellable
excipients, which produces an inner pressure disengaging
the capsular components, including a ﬁrst capsule body
containing the swellable materials, a second capsule body
containing the drugs, and an outer cap attached to the ﬁrst
capsule body.

[0133] The delayed-release coating layer may further
comprise anti-tackiness agents, such as talc and glyceryl
monostearate. The delayed-release coating layer may further
comprise one or more plasticizers including, but not limited
to, triethyl citrate, acetyl triethyl citrate. acetyltributyl cit-
rate, polyethylene glycol acetylated monoglycerides, glyc-
erin, triacetin, propylene glycol, phthalate esters (e.g.,
diethyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate), titanium dioxide, ferric
oxides, castor oil, sorbitol, and dibutyl sebacate.

[0134] In another embodiment, the delayed-release formu-
lation employs a water-permeable but insoluble ﬁlm coating
to enclose the active ingredient and an osmotic agent. As
water from the gut slowly diffuses through the ﬁlm into the
core, the core swells until the ﬁlm bursts, thereby releasing
the active ingredients. The ﬁlm coating may be adjusted to
permit various rates of water permeation or release time.

[0135] In another embodiment, the delayed release formu-
lation employs a water-impermeable tablet coating whereby
water enters through a controlled aperture in the coating
until the core bursts. When the tablet bursts, the drug
contents are released immediately or over a longer period of
time. These and other techniques may be modiﬁed to allow
for a pre-determined lag period before release of drugs is
initiated.

[0136] In another embodiment, the active agents are deliv-
ered in a formulation to provide both delayed-release and
extended-release (delayed-extended-release). The term
“delayed-extended-release” is used herein with reference to
a drug formulation providing pulsatile release of active
agents at a pre-determined time or lag period following
administration, which is then followed by extended-release
of the active agents thereafter.

[0137] In some embodiments, immediate-release,
extended-release, delayed-release, or delayed-extended-re-
lease formulations comprises an active core comprised of
one or more inert particles, each in the form of a bead, pellet,
pill, granular particle, microcapsule, microsphere, micro-
granule, nanocapsule, or nanosphere coated on its surfaces
with drugs in the fomi of e.g., a drug-containing ﬁlm-

Jan. 31, 2019

forming composition using, for example, ﬂuid bed tech-
niques or other methodologies known to those of skill in the
art. The inert particle can be of various sizes, so long as it
is large enough to remain poorly dissolved. Alternatively,
the active core may be prepared by granulating and milling
and/or by extrusion and spheronization of a polymer com-
position containing the drug substance.

[0138] The amount of drug in the core will depend on the
dose that is required and typically varies from about 1 to 100
weight %, about 5 to 100 weight %, about 10 to 100 weight
%, about 20 to 100 weight %, about 30 to 100 weight %,
about 40 to 100 weight %, about 50 to 100 weight %, about
60 to 100 weight %, about 70 to 100 weight %, or about 80
to 100 weight %. Generally, the polymeric coating on the
active core will be from about 1 to 50% based on the weight
of the coated particle, depending on the lag time and type of
release proﬁle required and/or the polymers and coating
solvents chosen. Those skilled in the art will be able to select
an appropriate amount of drug for coating onto or incorpo-
rating into the core to achieve the desired dosage In one
embodiment, the inactive core may be a sugar sphere or a
buifer crystal or an encapsulated bulfer crystal such as
calcium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, fumaric acid, tar-
taric acid, etc. which alters the microenvironment of the
drug to facilitate its release.

[0139] In some embodiments, for example, delayed-re-
lease or delayed-extended-release compositions may formed
by coating a water solublejdispersible drug-containing par-
ticle, such as a bead, with a mixture of a water insoluble
polymer and an enteric polymer, wherein the water insoluble
polymer and the enteric polymer may be present at a weight
ratio of from 4:1 to 1:1, and the total weight of the coatings
is 10 to 60 weight % based on the total weight of the coated
beads. The drug layered beads may optionally include an
inner dissolution rate controlling membrane of ethylcellu-
lose. The composition of the outer layer, as well as the
individual weights of the inner and outer layers of the
polymeric membrane are optimized for achieving desired
circadian rhythm release proﬁles for a given active, which
are predicted based on in vitro/in vivo correlations.

[0140] In other embodiments the formulations may com-
prise a mixture of immediate-relwse drug-containing par-
ticles without a dissolution rate controlling polymer mem-
brane and delayed-extended—release beads exhibiting, for
example, a lag time of 2-4 hours following oral administra-
tion, thus providing a two-pulse release proﬁle.

[0141] In some embodiments, the active core is coated
with one or more layers of dissolution rate-controlling
polymers to obtain desired release proﬁles with or without a
lag time. An inner layer membrane can largely control the
rate of drug release following imbibition of water or body
ﬂuids into the core, while the outer layer membrane can
provide for a desired lag time (the period of no or little drug
release following imbibition of water or body ﬂuids into the
core). The inner layer membrane may comprise a water
insoluble polymer, or a mixture of water insoluble and water
soluble polymers.

[0142] The polymers suitable for the outer membrane,
which largely controls the lag time of up to 6 hours may
comprise an enteric polymer, as described above, and a
water insoluble polymer at 10 to 50 weight %. The ratio of
water insoluble polymer to enteric polymer may vary from
US 2019/0029980 A1

27

TABLE 2-continued

Summary of main ﬁndin

Jan. 31, 2019

Negative LPS Dose analgestc nM
Elfectors % Positive Control 5 ng/ml 5 x 105 5 x 105 5 x 10‘ 5 x 103 500 50 5
Ibuprofen CD40+CD80+ ND‘ 6.4 7.7 7.9 6.0 4.9 5.3
Napmxen CD40‘CD80‘ 37 9.6 7.7 6.9 7.2 6.3 5.2

Analgesic plus LPS

Acetaminophen CD40‘CD80‘ 95.1 82.7 72.4 68.8 66.8 66.2 62.1
Aspirin CD40’CD80’ 84.5 80 78.7 74.7 75.8 70.1 65.7
ibuprofen CD40’CD80’ ND 67 77.9 72.9 71.1 63.7 60.3
Naproxen CD40’CD80’ 66.0 74.1 77.1 71.0 68.8 72 73
‘ND: not done (toxicity)
[0276] Table 3 summarizes the results of several studies [0283] (4) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the

that measured serum levels of analgesic aﬁer oral therapeu-
tic doses in adult humans. As shown in Table 3, the maxi-
mum serum levels of analgesic aﬁer an oral therapeutic dose
are in the range of 104 to 105 nM, Therefore, the doses of
analgesic tested in vitro in Table 2 cover the range of
concentrations achievable in vivo in humans.

TABLE 3

presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.

[0284] (5) Botulinum neurotoxin A alone at various
doses.
[0285] (6) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in

the presence of LPS.

Serum levels of anal esic in human blood after oral therapeutic doses

Max1mum serum
levels alter oral

Molecular therapeutic doses

Analgesic drug Weight mg/L 11M References
Acetaminophen 151.15 11-13 7.2 x 10“- BMC Clinical Pharmacology. 2010. 10: 10
(Tylenol) 1.19 x 105 Anaesth Intensive Care. 2011, 39: 242
Aspirin [81.66 30.100 1.55 x 105. Disposition of Toxic Drug: and Chemicals in
(Acetylsalicylic 5.5 x 105 Marl, so. Edition, Biomedical Public, Foster
ﬁeld) City, CA, 2008,1113. 2225

J Lab Clin Med. 1984 June; 103: 869
Ibuprofen 205.29 24-32 1.15 x 105- BMC Clinical PharmacologyZOlO, 10: 10
(Advil, Motrin) 1.55 x 105 J Clin Pharmacol. 2001, 41: 330
Naproxen 230.25 Up to Up to J Clin thnacol. 2001, 41: 330
(Aleve) 50 2.5 x 105

Example 3: Eifect of Analgesic Agents, Botulinum
Neurotoxin and Antimuscarinic Agents on Mouse
Bladder Smooth Muscle Cell Responses to
Inﬂammatory and Non-Inﬂammatory Stimuli

Experimental Design

[0277] This study is designed to characterize how the
optimal doses of analgesics determined in Example 2 aﬂect
bladder smooth muscle cells in cell culture or tissue cultures,
and to address whether different classes of analgesics can
synergize to more eﬂiciently inhibit COX2 and PGE2
responses.
[0278] The effectors, analgesic agents and antimuscarinic
agents are described in Example 2,
[0279] Primary culture of mouse bladder smooth muscle
cells are subjected to short term (1 -2 hrs) or long term (24-48
hrs) stimulation with:
[0280] (1) Each analgesic agent alone at various doses.
[0281] (2) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of LPS.
[0282] (3) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.

[0286] (7) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine,

[0287] (8) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.

[0288] (9) Each antimuscarinic agent alone at various
doses.
[0289] (10) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses

in the presence of LPS.
[0290] (11) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0291] (12) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.
[0292] The cells are then analyzed for the release of
PGHZ; PGE; PGEZ; Prostacydin; Thromboxane; IL-lfi;
IL—6; TNF-(x; the COX2 activity; the production of cAMP
and cGMP; the production of IL-lB, IL-6, TN'F-ot, and
COX2 mRNA; and surface expression of CD80, CD86, and
MEW class II molecules.

Materials and Methods

Isolation and Puriﬁcation of Mouse Bladder Cells

[0293] Bladder cells were removed from euthanized ani-
mals C57BL/6 mice (8-12 weeks old), and cells were
US 2019/0029980 A1

[0094] Exemplary release-promoting agents include pH-
dependent enteric polymers that remain intact at a pH value
lower than about 4.0 and dissolve at pH values higher than
4.0, preferably higher than 50, most preferably about 60,
and are considered useful as release-promoting agents for
this invention Exemplary pH-dependent polymers include,
but are not limited to, methacarylic acid copolymers; meth-
acrylic acid-methyl methacrylate copolymers (e.g,,
EUDRAGIT® L100 (Type A), EUDRAGIT® 5100 (Type
B), Rohm GmbH, Germany), methacrylic acid-ethyl acry-
late copolymers (e.g., EUDRAGIT® L100-55 (Type C) and
EUDRAGIT® L30D-55 copolymer dispersion, Rohm
GmbH, Germany); copolymers of methacrylic acid-methyl
methacrylate and methyl methacrylate (EUDRAGIT® F S);
terpolymers of methacrylic acid, methacrylate, and ethyl
acrylate, cellulose acetate phthalates (CAP); hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose phthalate (HPMCP) (e,g,, HP-55, HP-50,
PIP-55$, Shinetsu Chemical, Japan); polyvinyl acetate
phthalates (PVAP) (eg, COATERIC®, OPADRY® enteric
white OY-P-7171); polyvinylbutyrate acetate, cellulose
acetate succinates (CAS); hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
acetate succinate (HPMCAS) (e,g., HPMCAS LF Grade,
MF Grade, and HF Grade, including AQOAT® LF and
AQOAT® MF, Shin-Etsu Chemical, Japan), shellac (e,g,,
MARCOA'ITM 125 and MARCOA'ITM 125N); vinyl acetate-
maleic anhydride copolymer, styrene-maleic monoester
copolymer, carboxymethyl ethylcellulose (CMEC, Freund
Corporation, Japan); cellulose acetate phthalates (CAP)
(e.g,, AQUATERIC®), cellulose acetate trimellitates (CAT),
and mixtures of two or more thereof at weight ratios between
about 2:1 to about 5:1, such as a mixture of EUDRAGIT®
L 100-55 and EUDRAGIT® S 100 at a weight ratio of about
3:1 to about 2:1, or a mixture of EUIDRAGIT® L 30 D-55
and EUIDRAGIT® FS at a weight ratio of about 3:1 to
about 5:1,

[0095] These polymers may be used either alone or in
combination, or together with polymers other than those
mentioned above. Preferred enteric pH-dependent polymers
are the pharmaceutically acceptable methacrylic acid copo-
lymers, These copolymers are anionic polymers based on
methacrylic acid and methyl methacrylate and, preferably,
have a mean molecular weight of about 50,000 to 200,000,
preferably about 135,000. A ratio of free carboxyl groups to
methyl-esteriﬁed carboxyl groups in these copolymers may
range, for example, from 1:1 to 1:3, e.g. around 1:1 or 1:2,
The release promoters are not limited to pH dependent
polymers. Other hydrophilic molecules that dissolve rapidly
and leach out of the dosage form quickly leaving a porous
structure can be also be used for the same purpose:

[0096] In some embodiments, the matrix may include a
combination of release promoters and solubility enhancing
agents, The solubility enhancing agents can be ionic and
non-ionic surfactants, complexing agents, hydrophilic poly-
mers, and pH modiﬁers such as acidifying agents and
alkalinizing agents, as well as molecules that increase the
solubility of poorly soluble drug through molecular entrap-
ment, Several solubility enhancing agents can be utilized
simultaneously.

[0097] Solubility enhancing agents may include surface
active agents, such as sodium docusate; sodium lauryl
sulfate; sodium stearyl fumarate; Tweens® and Spans (PEO
modiﬁed sorbitan monoesters and fatty acid sorbitan esters);
poly(ethylene oxide)—polypropylene oxide—poly(ethylene
oxide) block copolymers (aka PLURONICSTM); complex-

Jan. 31, 2019

ing agents such as low molecular weight polyvinyl pyrroli-
done and low molecular weight hydroxypropyl methyl cel-
lulose; molecules that aid solubility by molecular
entrapment such as cyclodextrins and pH modifying agents,
including acidifying agents such as citric acid, fumaric acid,
tartaric acid, and hydrochloric acid, and alkalizing agents
such as meglumine and sodium hydroxide.

[0098] Solubility enhancing agents typically constitute
from 1% to 80% by weight, from 1% to 60% by weight,
from 1% to 50% by weight, from 1% to 40% by weight and
from 1% to 30% by weight, of the dosage form and can be
incorporated in a variety of ways, They can be incorporated
in the formulation prior to granulation in dry or wet form.
They can also be added to the formulation aﬁer the rest of
the materials are granulated or otherwise processed, During
granulation, solubility enhancing agents can be sprayed as
solutions with or without a binder,

[0099] In one embodiment, the extended-release formula-
tion comprises a water-insoluble water-permeable polymeric
coating or matrix comprising one or more water-insoluble
water-permeable ﬁlm-forming over the active core, The
coating may additionally include one or more water soluble
polymers and/or one or more plasticizers, The water-in-
soluble polymer coating comprises a barrier coating for
release ofactive agents in the core, wherein lower molecular
weight (viscosity) grades exhibit faster release rates as
compared to higher viscosity grades,

[0100] In some embodiments, the water-insoluble ﬁlm-
forming polymers include one or more alkyl cellulose
ethers, such as ethyl celluloses and mixtures thereof, (e,g.,
ethyl cellulose grades PR1 00, PR45, PR20, PR10, and PR7;
ETHOCEL®, Dow),

[0101] In some embodiments, the water-insoluble polymer
provides suitable properties (e.g,, extended-release charac-
teristics, mechanical properties, and coating properties)
without the need for a plasticizer, For example, coatings
comprising polyvinyl acetate (PVA), neutral copolymers of
acrylate/methacrylate esters such as commercially available
Eudragit NE30D from Evonik Industries, ethyl cellulose in
combination with hydroxypropylcellulose, waxes, etc. can
be applied without plasticizers,

[0102] In yet another embodiment, the water-insoluble
polymer matrix may further include a plasticizer, The
amount of plasticizer required depends upon the plasticizer,
the properties of the water-insoluble polymer and the ulti-
mate desired properties of the coating. Suitable levels of
plasticizer range from about 1% to about 20%, from about
3% to about 20%, about 3% to about 5%, about 7% to about
10%, about 12% to about 15%, about 17% to about 20%, or
about 1%, about 2%, about 3%, about 4%, about 5%, about
6%, about 7%, about 8%, about 9%, about 10%, about 15%,
or about 20% by weight relative to the total weight of the
coating, inclusive of all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.
[0103] Exemplary plasticizers include, but are not limited
to, triacetin, acetylated monoglyceride, oils (castor oil,
hydrogenated castor oil, grape seed oil, sesame oil, olive oil,
and etc,), citrate esters, triethyl citrate, acetyltriethyl citrate
acetyltributyl citrate, tributyl citrate, acetyl tri-n-butyl cit-
rate, diethyl phthalate, dibutyl phthalate, dioctyl phthalate,
methyl paraben, propyl paraben, propyl paraben, butyl para-
ben, diethyl sebacate, dibutyl sebacate, glyceroltributyrate,
substituted triglycerides and glycerides, monoacetylated and
diacetylated glycerides (e.g,, MYVACET® 9-45), glyceryl
monostearate, glycerol tributyrate, polysorbate 80, polyeth-
US 2019/0029980 A1

yleneglycol (such as PEG-4000 and PEG-400), propyl-
eneglycol, 1,2-propyleneglycol, glycerin, sorbitol, diethyl
oxalate, diethyl malate, diethyl fumarate, diethylmalonate,
dibutyl succinate, fatty acids, glycerin, sorbitol, diethyl
oxalate, diethyl malate, diethyl maleate, diethyl fumarate,
diethyl succinate, diethyl malonate, dioctyl phthalate, dibu-
tyl sebacate, and mixtures thereof The plasticizer can have
surfactant properties, such that it can act as a release
modiﬁer. For example, non-ionic detergents such as Brij 58
(polyoxyethylene (20) cetyl ether), and the like, can be used,
[0104] Plasticizers can be high boiling point organic sol-
vents used to impart ﬂexibility to otherwise hard or brittle
polymeric materials and can affect the release proﬁle for the
active agent(s). Plasticizers generally cause a reduction in
the cohesive intermolecular forces along the polymer chains
resulting in various changes in polymer properties. These
changes include, but are not limited to, a reduction in tensile
strength and increase in elongation and a reduction in the
glass transition or soﬁening temperature of the polymer The
amount and choice of the plasticizer can affect the hardness
of a tablet, for example, and can even affect its dissolution
or disintegration characteristics, as well as its physical and
chemical stability. Certain plasticizers can increase the elas-
ticity and/or pliability of a coat, thereby decreasing the
coat’s brittleness.

[0105] In another embodiment, the extended-release for-
mulation comprises a combination of at least two gel-
forming polymers, including at least one non-ionic gel-
forming polymer and/or at least one anionic gel-forming
polymer, The gel formed by the combination of gel-forming
polymers provides controlled release, such that when the
formulation is ingested and comes into contact with the
gastrointestinal ﬂuids, the polymers nearest the surface
hydrate to form a viscous gel layer. Due to the high viscosity,
the viscous layer dissolves away only gradually, exposing
the material below to the same process, The mass thus
dissolves away slowly, thereby slowly releasing the active
ingredient into the gastrointestinal ﬂuids, The combination
of at least two gel-forming polymers enables properties of
the resultant gel, such as viscosity, to be manipulated in
order to provide the desired release proﬁle.

[0106] In a particular embodiment, the formulation com-
prises at least one non-ionic gel-forming polymer and at
least one anionic gel-forming polymer. In another embodi-
ment, the formulation comprises two different non-ionic
gel-forming polymers. In yet another embodiment, the for-
mulation comprises a combination of non-ionic gel-forming
polymers with the same chemistry, but diiTerent solubilities,
viscosities, and/or molecular weights (for example, a com-
bination of hydroxyproplyl methylcellulose of different vis-
cosity grades, such as HPMC K100 and HPMC KlSM or
HPMC K100M),

[0107] Exemplary anionic gel forming polymers include,
but are not limited to, sodium carboxymethylcellulose (Na
CMC), carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC), anionic polysac-
charides such as sodium alginate, alginic acid, pectin, poly-
glucuronic acid (poly-ot- and -B-1,4-glucuronic acid), poly-
galacturonic acid (pectic acid), chondroitin sulfate,
carrageenan, furcellaran, anionic gums such as xanthan
gum, polymers of acrylic acid or carbomers (Carbopol®
934, 940, 9741) NF), Carbopol® copolymers, a Pemulen®
polymer, polycarbophil, and others.

[0108] Exemplary non-ionic gel-fonning polymers
include, but are not limited to, Povidone (PVP: polyvinyl

Jan. 31, 2019

pyrrolidone), polyvinyl alcohol, copolymer of PVP and
polyvinyl acetate, HPC (hydroxypropyl cellulose), HPMC
(hydroxypropyl methylcellulose), hydroxyethyl cellulose,
hydroxymethyl cellulose, gelatin, polyethylene oxide, aca-
cia, dextrin, starch, polyhydroxyethylrnethacrylate
(PHEMA), water soluble nonionic polymethacrylates and
their copolymers, modiﬁed cellulose, modiﬁed polysaccha-
rides, nonionic gums, nonionic polysaccharides, and/or mix-
tures thereof.

[0109] The formulation may optionally comprise an
enteric polymer as described above and/or at least one
excipient, such as a ﬁller, a binder (as described above), a
disintegrant and/or a ﬂow aid or glidant.

[0110] Exemplary ﬁllers include, but are not limited to,
lactose, glucose, fructose, sucrose, dicalcium phosphate,
sugar alcohols also known as “sugar polyol” such as sorbi-
tol, manitol, lactitol, xylitol, isomalt, erythritol, and hydro-
genated starch hydrolysates (a blend of several sugar alco-
ho s), corn starch, potato starch, sodium
carboxymethycellulose, ethylcellulose and cellulose acetate,
enteric polymers, or a mixture thereof

[0111] Exemplary binders include, but are not limited to,
water-soluble hydrophilic polymers such as Povidone (PVP:
po yvinyl pyrrolidone), copovidone (a copolymer of poly-
vinyl pyrrolidone and polyvinyl acetate). low molecular
weight HPC (hydroxypropyl cellulose), low molecular
weight HPMC (hydroxypropyl methylcellulose), low
molecular weight carboxy methyl cellulose, ethylcellulose,
ge atin, polyethylene oxide, acacia, dextrin, magnesium
aluminum silicate, and starch and polymethacrylates such as
Eudragit NE 30D, Eudragit RL, Eudragit RS, Eudragit E,
po yvinyl acetate, enteric polymers, or mixtures thereof.
[0112] Exemplary disintegrants include, but are not lim-
ited to, low-substituted carboxymethyl cellulose sodium,
crospovidone (cross-linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone), sodium
carboxymethyl starch (sodium starch glycolate), cross-
lin ed sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (Croscarmellose),
pregelatinized starch (starch 1500), microcrystalline cellu-
lose, water insoluble starch, calcium carboxymethyl cellu-
lose, low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose, and magne-
sium or aluminum silicate.

[0113] Exemplary glidants include but are not limited to,
magnesium, silicon dioxide, talc, starch, titanium dioxide,
and the like,

[0114] In yet another embodiment, the extended-release
formulation is formed by coating a water soluble/dispersible
drug-containing particle, such as a bead or bead population
therein (as described above), with a coating material and,
optionally, a pore former and other excipients. The coating
material is preferably selected from a group comprising
cellulosic polymers such as ethylcellulose (e.g., SURE-
LEASE), methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose,
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate, and cel-
lulose acetate phthalate; polyvinyl alcohol; acrylic polymers
such as polyacr'ylates, polymethacrylates, and copolymers
thereof; and other water-based or solvent-based coating
materials. The release-controlling coating for a given bead
population may be controlled by at least one parameter of
the release controlling coating, such as the nature of the
coating, coating level, type and concentration of a pore
former, process parameters, and combinations thereof Thus,
changing a parameter, such as a pore former concentration,
or the conditions of the curing, allows for changes in the
release of active agent(s) from any given bead population.
US 2019/0029980 A1

an irritant effect on the stomach, such as aspirin, from
dissolving in the stomach. As used herein, the term “enteric
coating” is a coating comprising of one or more polymers
having a pH dependent or pH-independent release proﬁle,
An enteric coated pill will not dissolve in the acidic juices
of the stomach (pH ~3), but they will in the alkaline (pH 7-9)
environment present in the small intestine or colon, An
enteric polymer coating typically resists releases of the
active agents until sometime after a gastric emptying lag
period of about 3-4 hours alter administration.

[0124] Accordingly, a formulation that releases it compo-
nent “after gastric emptying” refers to a delayed formulation
that releases the active ingredient(s) alter the formulation is
emptied from the stomach and enters intestine

[0125] Such coatings are also used to protect acid-unstable
drugs from the stomach’s acidic exposure, delivering them
instead to a basic pH environment (intestine’s pH 5.5 and
above) where they do not degrade and give their desired
action. The term “pulsatile-release” is a type of delayed-
release, which is used herein with reference to a drug
formulation that provides rapid and transient release of the
drug within a short time period immediately after a prede-
termined lag period, thereby producing a “pulsed” plasma
proﬁle of the dmg after drug administration, Formulations
may be designed to provide a single pulsatile release or
multiple pulsatile releases at predetermined time intervals
following administration, or a pulsatile release (erg, 20-60%
of the active ingredient) followed with extended release over
a period of time (e.g., a continuous release of the remainder
of the active ingredient). A delayed-release or pulsatile
release formulation generally comprises one or more ele-
ments covered with a barrier coating, which dissolves,
erodes or ruptures following a speciﬁed lag phase.

[0126] A barrier coating for delayed-release may consist
of a variety of diiferent materials, depending on the objec-
tive. In a ition, a formulation may comprise a plurality of
barrier coatings to facilitate release in a temporal manner
The coating may be a sugar coating, a ﬁlm coating (e.g,,
based on hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, methylcellulose,
methyl hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, car-
boxymethy cellulose, acrylate copolymers, polyethylene
glycols, anc or polyvinylpyrrolidone) or a coating based on
methacrylic acid copolymer, cellulose acetate phthalate,
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, hydroxypropyl
methylcellu ose acetate succinate, polyvinyl acetate phtha-
late, shellac, and/or ethylcellulosei Furthermore, the formu-
lation may additionally include a time delay material such as
glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate.

[0127] In some embodiments, the delayed-extended-re-
lease fonnu ation includes an enteric coating comprising one
or more polymers facilitating release of active agents in
proximal or distal regions of the gastrointestinal tract, pH
dependent enteric coatings comprise one or more pH-de-
pendent or H-sensitive polymers that maintain their struc-
tural integrity at low pH, as in the stomach, but dissolve in
higher pH environments in more distal regions of the
gastrointestinal tract, such as the small intestine, where the
drug contents are released, For purposes of the present
invention, “pH dependent" is defined as having character-
istics (erg, dissolution) which vary according to environ-
mental pH, Exemplary pH-dependent polymers have been
described earlier. pH-dependent polymers typically exhibit a
characteristic pH optimum for dissolution. In some embodi-
ments, the pH-dependent polymer exhibits a pH optimum

 

Jan. 31, 2019

between about 5.0 and 5.5, between about 55 and 60,
between about 6.0 and 6.5, or between about 6.5 and 7.0. In
other embodiments, the pH-dependent polymer exhibits a
pH optimum of >50, of >55, of >60, of >6.5, or of >7.0.
[0128] In certain embodiments, the coating methodology
employs the blending of one or more pH-dependent and one
or more pH-independent polymers, The blending of pH-
dependent and pH-independent polymers can reduce the
release rate of active ingredients once the soluble polymer
has reached its optimum pH of solubilization,

[0129] In some embodiments, a “delayed-release” or
“delayed-extended-release” proﬁle can be obtained using a
water insoluble capsule body containing one or more active
agents, wherein the capsule body closed at one end with an
insoluble, but permeable and swellable hydrogel plug, Upon
contact with gastrointestinal ﬂuid or dissolution medium, the
plug swells, pushing itself out of the capsule and releasing
the drugs after a pre-determined lag time, which can be
controlled by, for example, the position and dimensions of
the plug The capsule body may be further coated with an
outer pH-dependent enteric coating keeping the capsule
intact until it reaches the small intestine. Suitable plug
materials include, for example, polymethacrylates, erodible
compressed polymers (e,g., HPMC, polyvinyl alcohol), con-
gealed melted polymer (e.g., glyceryl mono oleate), and
enzymatically controlled erodible polymers (egi, polysac-
charides, such as amylose, arabinogalactan, chitosan, chon-
droitin sulfate, cyclodextrin, dextran, guar gum, pectin and
xylan).

[0130] In other embodiments, cap stiles or bilayered tablets
may be formulated to contain a drug-containing core, cov-
ered by a swelling layer and an outer insoluble, but semi-
permeable polymer coating or membrane, The lag time prior
to rupture can be controlled by the permeation and mechani-
cal properties of the polymer coating and the swelling
behavior of the swelling layer. Typically, the swelling layer
comprises one or more swelling agents, such as swellable
hydrophilic polymers that swell and retain water in their
structures,

[0131] Exemplary water swellable materials to be used in
the delayed-release coating include, but are not limited to,
polyethylene oxides (having e.g., an average molecular
weight between 1,000,000 and 7,000,000, such as
POLYOX®); methylcellulose; hydroxypropyl cellulose;
hydroxypropyl methylcellulose; polyalkylene oxides having
a weight average molecular weight of 100,000 to 6,000,000,
including, but not limited to, poly(methylene oxide), poly
(butylene oxide), poly(hydroxy alkyl rnethacrylate) having a
molecular weight of 25,000 to 5,000,000, poly(vinyl)alcohol
having a low acetal residue, which is cross-linked with
glyoxal, formaldehyde, or glutaraldehyde, and having a
degree of polymerization from 200 to 30,000; mixtures of
methyl cellulose, cross-linked agar, and carboxymethyl cel-
lulose; hydrogel forming copolymers produced by forming
a dispersion of a ﬁnely divided copolymer of maleic anhy-
dride with styrene, ethylene, propylene, butylene, or isobu-
tylene cross-linked with from 0.001 to 0.5 moles of saturated
cross-linking agent per mole of maleic anyhydride in the
copolymer; CARBOPOL® acidic carboxy polymers having
a molecular weight of 450,000 to 4,000,000; CYANA-
MER® polyacrylamides; cross-linked water swellable
indenemaleicanhydride polymers; GOODRITE® poly-
acrylic acid having a molecular weight of 80,000 to 200,000;
starch graft copolymers; AQUAKEEPS® acrylate polymer
US 2019/0029980 A1
11

thereby allowing for selective adjustment of the formulation
to a pre-determined release proﬁle.

[0115] Pore formers suitable for use in the release con-
trolling coating herein can be organic or inorganic agents
and include materials that can be dissolved, extracted or
leached from the coating in the environment of use. Exem-
plary pore forming agents include, but are not limited to,
organic compounds such as mono-, oligo-, and polysaccha-
rides including sucrose, glucose, fructose, mannitol, man-
nose, galactose, sorbitol, pullulan, and dextran; polymers
soluble in the environment of use such as water-soluble
hydrophilic polymers, hydroxyalkylcelluloses, carboxyalky-
lcelluloses, hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, cellulose ethers,
acrylic resins, polyvinylpyrrolidone, cross-linked polyvi-
nylpyrrolidone, polyethylene oxide, Carbowaxes, Carbopol,
and the like, diols, polyols, polyhydric alcohols, polyalky-
lene glycols, polyethylene glycols, polypropylene glycols,
or block polymers thereof, polyglycols. and poly((x-Q)alky-
lenediols; and inorganic compounds such as alkali metal
salts, lithium carbonate, sodium chloride, sodium bromide,
potassium chloride, potassium sulfate, potassium phosphate,
sodium acetate, sodium citrate, suitable calcium salts, com-
bination thereof, and the like,

[0116] The release controlling coating can further com-
prise other additives known in the art. such as plasticizers,
anti-adherents, glidants (or ﬂow aids) and antifoamsi In
some embodiments, the coated particles or beads may addi-
tionally include an “overcoat,” to provide, for example,
moisture protection, static charge reduction, taste-masking,
ﬂavoring, coloring, and/or polish or other cosmetic appeal to
the beads. Suitable coating materials for such an overcoat
are known in the art and include, but are not limited to,
cellulosic polymers such as hydroxypropylmethylcellulose,
hydroxypropylcellulose, and microcrystalline cellulose or
combinations thereof (for example, various OPADRY®
coating materials).

[0117] The coated particles or beads may additionally
contain enhancers that may be exempliﬁed by, but not
limited to, solubility enhancers. dissolution enhancers,
absorption enhancers, permeability enhancers, stabilizers,
complexing agents, enzyme inhibitors, p-glycoprotein
inhibitors, and multidrug resistance protein inhibitors. Alter-
natively, the formulation can also contain enhancers that are
separated from the coated particles, for example, in a sepa-
rate population of beads or as a powder In yet another
embodiment, the enhancer(s) may be contained in a separate
layer on coated particles either under or above the release
controlling coating.

[0118] In other embodiments, the extended-release fonnu-
lation is formulated to release the active agent(s) by an
osmotic mechanism. By way of example, a capsule may be
formulated with a single osmotic unit or it may incorporate
2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 push-pull units encapsulated within a hard
gelatin capsule, whereby each bilayer push pull unit contains
an osmotic push layer and a drug layer, both surrounded by
a semi-permeable membrane. One or more oriﬁces are
drilled through the membrane next to the drug layer. This
membrane may be additionally covered with a pH-depen-
dent enteric coating to prevent release until after gastric
emptying. The gelatin capsule dissolves immediately after
ingestion. As the push pull unit(s) enters the small intestine,
the enteric coating breaks down, which then allows ﬂuid to
ﬂow through the semi-penneable membrane, swelling the
osmotic push compartment to force drugs out through the

Jan. 31, 2019

oriﬁce(s) at a rate precisely controlled by the rate of water
transport through the semi-permeable membrane. Release of
drugs can occur over a constant rate for up to 24 hours or
more.

[0119] The osmotic push layer comprises one or more
osmotic agents creating the driving force for transport of
water through the semi-permeable membrane into the core
of the delivery vehicle, One class of osmotic agents includes
water-swellable hydrophilic polymers, also referred to as
“osmopolymers” and “hydrogels,” including, but not limited
to, hydrophilic vinyl and acrylic polymers, polysaccharides
such as calcium alginate, polyethylene oxide (PEO), poly-
ethylene glycol (PEG), polypropylene glycol (PPG), poly
(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate), poly(acrylic) acid, poly
(methacrylic) acid, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), crosslinked
PVP, polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), PVA/PVP copolymers, PVA/
PVP copolymers with hydrophobic monomers such as
methyl methacrylate and vinyl acetate, hydrophilic polyure-
thanes containing large PEO blocks, sodium croscarmellose,
carrageenan, hydroxyethyl cellulose (HEC), hydroxypropyl
cellulose (HPC), hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose (I’IPMC),
carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) and carboxyethyl, cellulose
(CEC), sodium alginate, polycarbophil, gelatin, xanthan
gum, and sodium starch glycolate.

[0120] Another class of osmotic agents includes osmo-
gens, which are capable of imbibing water to effect an
osmotic pressure gradient across the semi-permeable mem-
brane. Exemplary osmogens include, but are not limited to,
inorganic salts such as magnesium sulfate, magnesium chlo-
ride, calcium chloride, sodium chloride, lithium chloride,
potassium sulfate, potassium phosphates, sodium carbonate,
sodium sulﬁte, lithium sulfate, potassium chloride, and
sodium sulfate; sugars such as dextrose, fructose, glucose,
inositol, lactose, maltose, mannitol, raﬁinose, sorbitol,
sucrose, trehalose, and xylitol; organic acids such as ascor-
bic acid, benzoic acid, fumaric acid, citric acid, maleic acid,
sebacic acid, sorbic acid, adipic acid, edetic acid, glutamic
acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid, succinic acid, and tartaric acid;
urea; and mixtures thereof

[0121] Materials useful in forming the semipermeable
membrane include various grades of acrylics, vinyls, ethers,
polyamides, polyesters, and cellulosic derivatives that are
water-permeable and water-insoluble at physiologically rel-
evant pHs, or are susceptible to being rendered water-
insoluble by chemical alteration, such as crosslinking.

[0122] In some embodiments, the extended-release formu-
lation comprises a polysaccharide coating that is resistant to
erosion in both the stomach and intestine. Such polymers
can be only degraded in the colon, which contains a large
microﬂora containing biodegradable enzymes breaking
down, for example, the polysaccharide coatings to release
the drug contents in a controlled, time-dependent manner,
Exemplary polysaccharide coatings may include, for
example, amylose, arabinogalactan, chitosan, chondroitin
sulfate, cyclodextrin, dextran, guar gum, pectin, xylan, and
combinations or derivatives therefrom.

[0123] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition is formulated for delayed-release or delayed-ex-

tended-release, In some embodiments, the delayed
extended-release formulation includes an extended-release
formulation coated with an enteric coating, which is a barrier
applied to oral medication that prevents release of medica-
tion before it reaches the small intestine. Delayed-release
formulations, such as enteric coatings, prevent drugs having
US 2019/0029980 A1

increase their hydrophobicity. Iiiposome-based methods can
also be used to introduce plasmid or viral vector into the
target tissue.

[0069] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition further comprises one or more active ingredients
selected from the group consisting of analgesic agents,
antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretics, spasmolytics, inhibitors
of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE 5 inhibitors) and 201-
pedim.

[0070] Examples of antimuscarinic agents include, but are
not limited to, oxybutynin, solifenacin, darifenacin,
fesoterodine, tolterodine, trospium, atropine, and tricyclic
antidepressants. Examples of antidiuretics include, but are
not limited to, antidiuretic hormone (ADH), angiotensin II,
aldosterone, vasopressin, vasopressin analogs (e.g., desmo-
pressin argipressin, lypressin, felypressin, ornipressin, terli-
pressin), vasopressin receptor agonists, atrial natriuretic
peptide (ANP) and C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) recep-
tor (i.e., NPRl, NPR2, and NPR3) antagonists (e.g.,
HS-l42-l, isatin, [Asu7,23‘]b-ANP-(7-28)], anantin, a
cyclic peptide from Streptomyces coerulescens, and 3Gl2
monoclonal antibody), somatostatin type 2 receptor antago-
nists (e.g., somatostatin), pharmaceutically-acceptable
derivatives, and analogs, salts, hydrates, and solvates
thereof. Examples of spasmolytics include, but are not
limited to, carisoprodol, benzodiazepines, baclofen,
cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone, methocarbamol, clonidine,
clonidine analog, and dantrolene. Examples of PDE 5 inhibi-
tors include, but are not limited to, tadalaﬁl, sildenaﬁl and
vardenaﬁl.

[0071] The pharmaceutical composition may be formu-
lated for immediate-release, extended-release, delayed-re-
lease, or combinations thereof.

[0072] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition is formulated for immediate-release.

[0073] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition is formulated for extended-release by embedding the
active ingredient in a matrix of insoluble substance(s) such
as acrylics or chitin. The extended-release form is designed
to release the active ingredient at a predetermined rate by
maintaining a constant dnrg level for a speciﬁc period of
time. This can be achieved through a variety of formulations,
including, but not limited to, liposomes and drug-polymer
conjugates, such as hydrogels.

[0074] An extended-release formulation can be designed
to release the active ingredient at a predetermined rate so as
to maintain a constant drug level for a speciﬁed, extended
period of time, such as up to about 24 hours, about 22 hours,
about 20 hours, about 18 hours, about 16 hours, about 14
hours, about 12 hours, about 10 hours, about 9 hours, about
8 hours, about 7 hours, about 6 hours, about 5 hours, about
4 hours, about 3 hours or about 2 hours following admin-
istration or following a lag period associated with delayed-
release of the active ingredient. The constant active ingre-
dient level may be maintained by a continuous release of the
active ingredient or pulsed-release of the active ingredient.
[0075] In certain embodiments, the active ingredient in an
extended-release formulation is released over a time interval
of between about I to about 24 hours, or between 2 to about
12 hours. Alternatively, the active ingredient may be
released over about 3, about 4, about 5, about 6, about 7,
about 8, about 9, about 10 hours, about 11 hours, about 12
hours, about 14 hours, about 16 hours, about 18 hours, about
20 hours, about 22 hours or about 24 hours. In yet other

Jan. 3], 2019

embodiments, the active ingredient in an extended-release
formulation is released over a time period between about 5
to about 8 hours following administration.

[0076] In some embodiments, the extended-release formu-
lation comprises an active core comprised of one or more
inert particles, each in the form of a bead, pellet. pill,
granular particle, microcapsule, microsphere, microgranule,
nanocapsule, or nanosphere coated on its surfaces with
drugs in the form of a drug-containing coating or ﬁlm-
forming composition using, for example, fluid bed tech-
niques or other methodologies known to those of skill in the
art. The inert particle can be of various sizes, so long as it
is large enough to remain poorly dissolved. Alternatively,
the active core may be prepared by granulating and milling
and/or by extrusion and spheronization of a polymer com-
position containing the drug substance. As used herein, the
term “drug” refers to the active ingredient of a pharmaceu-
tical composition.

[0077] The active ingredient may be introduced to the
inert carrier by techniques known to one skilled in the art,
such as drug layering, powder coating, extrusion/spheroni-
zation, roller compaction or granulation. The amount of
active ingredient in the core will depend on the dose that is
required and typically varies from about 1 to 100 weight %,
about 5 to 100 weight %, about 10 to 100 weight %, about
20 to 100 weight %, about 30 to 100 weight %, about 40 to
100 weight %, about 50 to 100 weight %, about 60 to 100
weight “/0, about 70 to 100 weight %, or about 80 to 100
weight %.

[0078] Generally, the polymeric coating on the active core
will be from about 1 to 50% based on the weight of the
coated particle, depending on the lag time required and/or
the polymers and coating solvents chosen. Those skilled in
the art will be able to select an appropriate amount of drug
for coating onto or incorporating into the core to achieve the
desired dosage. In one embodiment, the inactive core may
be a sugar sphere or a buifer crystal or an encapsulated buffer
crystal such as calcium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate,
fumaric acid, tartaric acid, etc. which alters the microenvi-
ronment of the drug to facilitate its release.

[0079] Extended-release formulations may utilize a vari-
ety of extended-release coatings or mechanisms facilitating
the gradual release of active agents over time. In some
embodiments, the extended-release agent comprises a poly-
mer controlling release by dissolution controlled release. In
a particular embodiment, the active agent(s) is incorporated
in a matrix comprising an insoluble polymer and drug
particles or granules coated with polymeric materials of
varying thickness. The polymeric material may comprise a
lipid barrier comprising a waxy material, such as carnauba
wax, beeswax, spermaceti wax, candellila wax, shallac wax,
cocoa butter, cetostearyl alcohol, partially hydrogenated
vegetable oils, ceresin, paraffin wax, ceresine, myristyl
alcohol, stearyl alcohol, cetyl alcohol, and stearic acid, along
with surfactants, such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan
monooleate. When contacted with an aqueous medium, such
as biological ﬂuids, the polymer coating emulsiﬁes or erodes
after a predetermined lag-time depending on the thickness of
the polymer coating. The lag time is independent of gastro-
intestinal motility, pH, or gastric residence.

[0080] In other embodiments, the extended-release agent
comprises a polymeric matrix etfecting ditfusion controlled
release. The matrix may comprise one or more hydrophilic
US 2019/0029980 A1

and/or water-swellable, matrix forming polymers, pH-de-
pendent polymers and/or pH-independent polymers,

[0081] In one embodiment, the extended-release formula-
tion comprises a water soluble or water-swellable matrix-
forming polymer, optionally containing one or more solu-
bility-enhancing agents and/or release-promoting agents,
Upon solubilization of the water soluble polymer, the active
agent(s) dissolves (if soluble) and gradually diffuses through
the hydrated portion of the matrix. The gel layer grows with
time as more water permeates into the core of the matrix,
increasing the thickness of the gel layer and providing a
diffusion barrier to drug release, As the outer layer becomes
fully hydrated, the polymer chains become completely
relaxed and can no longer maintain the integrity of the gel
layer, leading to disentanglement and erosion of the outer
hydrated polymer on the surface of the matrix Water con-
tinues to penetrate towards the core through the gel layer,
until it has been completely eroded. Whereas soluble drugs
are released by this combination of diﬁusion and erosion
mechanisms, erosion is the predominant mechanism for
insoluble drugs, regardless of close,

[0082] Similarly, water-swellable polymers typically
hydrate and swell in biological ﬂuids forming a homogenous
matrix structure that maintains its shape during drug release
and serves as a carrier for the drug, solubility enhancers
and/or release promoters. The initial matrix polymer hydra-
tion phase results in slow-release of the drug (lag phase),
Once the water swellable polymer is fully hydrated and
swollen, water within the matrix can similarly dissolve the
drug substance and allow for its diﬁusion out through the
matrix coating.

[0083] Additionally, the porosity of the matrix can be
increased due to the leaching out of pH-dependent release
promoters so as to release the drug at a faster rate, The rate
of the drug release then becomes constant and is a function
of drug diffusion through the hydrated polymer gel. The
release rate from the matrix is dependent upon various
factors, including polymer type and level, drug solubility
and dose, polymer to drug ratio, ﬁller type and level,
polymer to ﬁller ratio, particle size of drug and polymer, and
porosity and shape of the matrix,

[0084] Exemplary hydrophilic and/or water-swellable,
matrix forming polymers include, but are not limited to,
cellulosic polymers including hydroxyalkyl celluloses and
carboxyalkyl celluloses such as hydroxypropylmethylcellu-
lose (HPMC), hydroxypropylcellulose (HPC), hydroxyeth-
ylcellulose (HEC), methylcellulose (MC), carboxymethyl-
cellulose (CMC); powdered cellulose such as
microcrystalline cellulose, cellulose acetate, ethylcellulose,
salts thereof, and combinations thereof; alginates, gums
including heteropolysaccharide gums and homopolysaccha-
ride gums such as xanthan, tragacanth, pectin, acacia,
karaya, alginates, agar, g'uar, hydroxypropyl guar, veegum,
carrageenan, locust bean gum, gellan gum, and derivatives
therefrom; acrylic resins including polymers and copoly-
mers of acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, and
methyl methacrylate; and cross-linked polyacrylic acid
derivatives such as Carbomers (e.g,, CARBOPOL®, includ-
ing CARBOPOL® 71G NF, which is available in various
molecular weight grades from Noveon, Incl, Cincinnati,
Ohio), carageenan; polyvinyl acetate (erg, KOLLIDON®
SR); and polyvinyl pyrrolidone and its derivatives such as
crospovidone, polyethylene oxides, and polyvinyl alcohol,

Jan. 31, 2019

Preferred hydrophilic and water-swellable polymers include
the cellulosic polymers, especially HPMC.

[0085] The extended-release formulation may further
comprise at least one binder that is capable of cross-linking
the hydrophilic compound to form a hydrophilic polymer
matrix (e.g,, a gel matrix) in an aqueous medium. including
biological ﬂuids

[0086] Exemplary binders include homopolysaccharides
such as galactomannan gums, guar gum, hydroxypropyl
guar gum, hydroxypropylcellulose (HPC; e.g,, Klucel EXP),
and locust bean gum, In other embodiments, the binder is an
alginic acid derivative, HPC or microcrystallized ce lulose
(MCC), Other binders include, but are not limited to,
starches, microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellu-
lose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropylmethyl cellu-
lose, and polyvinylpyrrolidone.
[0087] In one embodiment, the introduction metiod is
drug layering by spraying a suspension of active agent(s)
and a binder onto the inert carrier
[0088] The binder may be present in the bead formulation
in an amount of about 01% to about 15% by weigit and
preferably of from about 02% to about 10% by weight,

[0089] In some embodiments, the hydrophilic polymer
matrix may further include an ionic polymer, a non-ionic
polymer, or water-insoluble hydrophobic polymer to provide
a stronger gel layer and/or reduce pore quantity and cimen-
sions in the matrix so as to slow diffusion and erosion rates
and concomitant release of the active agent(s). This may
additionally suppress the initial burst effect and procuce a
more steady “zero order release” of active agent(s).

[0090] Exemplary ionic polymers for slowing dissolution
rate include both anionic and cationic polymers. Exemplary
anionic polymers include, for example, sodium carboxym-
ethylcellulose (Na CMC); sodium alginate, polymers of
acrylic acid or carbomers (e.g,, CARBOPOL® 934, 940,
9741’ NF); enteric polymers such as polyvinyl acetate phtha-
late (PVAP), methacrylic acid copolymers (e,g.,
EUDRAGIT® LlOO, L 30D 55, A, and FS 30D), and
hypromellose acetate succinate (AQUAT HPMCAS); and
xanthan gum, Exemplary cationic polymers include, for
example, dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate copolymer (e,g.,
EUDRAGIT® E 100), Incorporation of anionic polymers,
particularly enteric polymers, is useful for developing a
pI’I-independent release proﬁle for weakly basic drugs as
compared to hydrophilic polymer alone.

[0091] Exemplary non-ionic polymers for slowing disso-
lution rate, include, for example, hydroxypropylcellulose
(HPC) and polyethylene oxide (PEO) (erg, POLYOXTM)

[0092] Exemplary hydrophobic polymers include ethyl-
cellulose (e,g., ETHOCELTM, SURELEASE®), cellulose
acetate, methacrylic acid copolymers (e.g., EUDRAGIT®
NE 30D), ammonio-methacrylate copolymers (e,g.,
EUDRAGIT® RL 100 or PO R5100), polyvinyl acetate,
glyceryl monostearate, fatty acids such as acetyl tributyl
citrate, and combinations and derivatives thereof.

[0093] The swellable polymer can be incorporated in the
formulation in proportion from 1% to 50% by weight,
preferably from 5% to 40% by weight, most preferably from
5% to 20% by weight, The swellable polymers and binders
may be incorporated in the formulation either prior to or
aﬁer granulation, The polymers can also be dispersed in
organic solvents or hydro-alcohols and sprayed during
granulation.
US 2019/0029980 A1

COMPOSITION FOR REDUCING
FREQUENCY OF URINATION, METHOD OF
MAKING AND USE THEREOF

[0001] This application is a continuation of US. patent
application Ser. No. 14/975,332, ﬁled on Dec. 18, 2015,
which is a continuation-in-part application of US. patent
application Ser. No. 14/298,511, ﬁled on Jun. 6, 2014, now
US. Pat. No. 9,532,959, The entirety of the aforementioned
application is incorporated herein by reference

FIELD

[0002] The present application generally relates to meth-
ods and compositions for inhibiting the smooth muscles of
the urinary bladder and, in particular, to methods and
compositions for reducing the frequency of urination.

BACKGROUND

[0003] The detrusor muscle is a layer of the urinary
bladder wall made of smooth muscle ﬁbers arranged in
spiral, longitudinal, and circular bundles. When the bladder
is stretched, this signals the parasympathetic nervous system
to contract the detrusor muscle. This encourages the bladder
to expel urine through the urethra,

[0004] For the urine to exit the bladder, both the auto-
nomically controlled internal sphincter and the voluntarily
controlled external sphincter must be opened. Problems with
these muscles can lead to incontinence. If the amount of
urine reaches 100% of the urinary bladder's absolute capac-
ity, the voluntary sphincter becomes involuntary and the
urine will be ejected instantly.

[0005] The human adult urinary bladder usually holds
about 300-350 ml of urine (the working volume), but a full
adult bladder may hold up to about 1000 ml (the absolute
volume), varying among individuals. As urine accumulates,
the ridges produced by folding of the wall of the bladder
(rugae) ﬂatten and the wall of the bladder thins as it
stretches, allowing the bladder to store larger amounts of
urine without a signiﬁcant rise in internal pressure

[0006] In most individuals, the desire to urinate usually
starts when the volume of urine in the bladder reaches
around 200 ml, At this stage it is easy for the subject, if
desired, to resist the urge to urinate As the bladder continues
to ﬁll, the desire to urinate becomes stronger and harder to
ignore. Eventually, the bladder will ﬁll to the point where the
urge to urinate becomes overwhelming, and the subject will
no longer be able to ignore it.

[0007] In some individuals, this desire to urinate starts
when the bladder is less than 100% full in relation to its
working volume. Such increased desire to urinate may
interfere with normal activities, including the ability to sleep
for sufﬁcient uninterrupted periods of rest. In some cases,
this increased desire to urinate may be associated with
medical conditions such as benign prostate hyperplasia or
prostate cancer in men, or pregnancy in women. However,
increased desire to urinate also occurs in individuals, both

male and female, who are not aﬂected by another medical
condition.

[0008] In some individuals, such as in children, involun-
tary urination (e.g,, bed wetting) may occur as a result of
lack of control to the bladder muscle, In other individuals,
involuntary urination (e.g., urinary incontinence) may occur
as a result from an underlying medical condition.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0009] Accordingly, there exists a need for compositions
and methods for the treatment of male and female subjects
who sutfer from an undesired frequency of urination.

SUMMARY

[0010] One aspect of the present application relates to a
method for manufacturing a pharmaceutical composition for
reducing the frequency of urination. In some embodiments,
the method comprises the steps of forming a ﬁrst mixture
comprising a ﬁrst active ingredient formulated for immedi-
ate release and a second active ingredient formulated for
extended release; coating the ﬁrst mixture with a delayed
release coating to form a core structure; coating the core
structure with a second mixture comprising a third active
ingredient formulated for immediate release and a fourth
active ingredient formulated for extended release, wherein at
least one of the ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active ingre-
dients comprises a prostaglandin pathway inhibitor. In some
embodiments, the prostaglandin pathway inhibitor is a pros-
taglandin (PG) inhibitor, or a prostaglandin transporter
(PGT) inhibitor, or a prostaglandin receptor (PGR) inhibitor,
[0011] In other embodiments, the method comprises the
steps of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst active
ingredient formulated for immediate release and a second
active ingredient formulated for extended release; coating
the core structure with a delayed release coating to form a
coated core structure; mixing the coated core structure with
a third active ingredient formulated for immediate release
and a fourth active ingredient formulated for extended
release to form a ﬁnal mixture: and preparing a dosage form
with the ﬁnal mixture, wherein at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises a
prostaglandin pathway inhibitor.

[0012] In other embodiments. the method comprises the
steps of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst active
ingredient formulated for immediate release and a second
active ingredient formulated for extended release; coating
the core structure with a delayed release coating to form a
coated core structure; coating the coated core structure with
a third active ingredient formulated for extended release to
form an extended-release layer coated core structure; and
coating the extended-release layer coated core structure with
a fourth active ingredient, wherein at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises a
prostaglandin pathway inliibitorr

[0013] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a pharmaceutical composition for treating a condition that
results in undesired frequency of urination, In some embodi-
ments, the pharmaceutical composition comprises: a ﬁrst
component comprising an immediate-release subcomponent
and an extended-release subcomponent, wherein the ﬁrst
component is formulated to release the subcomponents
immediately after administration; and a second component
comprising an immediate-release subcomponent and an
extended-release subcomponent, wherein the second com-
ponent is formulated for a delayed-release of the subcom-
ponents, wherein at least one of subcomponents in the ﬁrst
component and the second component comprises an active
ingredient comprising a prostaglandin pathway inhibitor.
[0014] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises: a ﬁrst component comprising an immedi-
ate-release subcomponent, wherein the immediate-release
subcomponent comprises an active ingredient comprising
one or more agents selected from the group consisting of
US 2019/0029980 A1

analgesic agents and prostaglandin pathway inhibitors,
wherein the ﬁrst component is formulated to release its
subcomponent immediately after oral administration; and a
second component comprising an immediate-release sub-
component and an extended-release subcomponent, wherein
the second component is formulated to release its subcom-
ponent after gastric emptying of the second component,
wherein at least one of the subcomponents in the ﬁrst and the
second components comprises an active ingredient compris-
ing one or more agents selected from the group consisting of
analgesic agents and prostaglandin pathway inhibitors,
[0015] In other embodiments, the phamiaceutical compo-
sition comprises: an immediate-release component compris-
ing acetaminophen and an NSAID, each in an amount of
5-2000 mg; and an extended-release component comprising
acetaminophen and an NSAID, each in an amount of 5-2000
mg, wherein the immediate-release component, or the
extended-release component, or both, further comprise a
prostaglandin pathway inhibitor.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS

[0016] FIGS, 1A and 1B are diagrams showing that anal-
gesics regulate expression of co-stimulatory molecules by
Raw 264 macrophage cells in the absence (FIG. 1A) or
presence (FIG. 1B) of LPS. Cells were cultured for 24 hrs in
the presence of analgesic alone or together with Salmonella
typhimurium LPS (0.05 [Lg/ml). Results are mean relative %
of CD40+CD80+ cells,

DETAILED DESCRIPTION

[0017] The following detailed description is presented to
enable any person skilled in the art to make and use the
invention. For purposes of explanation, speciﬁc nomencla-
ture is set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the
present invention. However, it will be apparent to one skilled
in the art that these speciﬁc details are not required to
practice the invention Descriptions of speciﬁc applications
are provided only as representative examples, The present
invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments
shown, but is to be accorded the broadest possible scope
consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein.

[0018] As used herein, the term “prostaglandin (PG)”
refers to a group of lipid compounds that are derived
enzymatically from fatty acids and have a variety of physi-
ological effects, such as regulating the contraction and
relaxation of smooth muscle tissue, in the animal body.
Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a
5-carbon ring, Examples of prostaglandin include, prosta-
glandin E1 (PGEl), prostaglandin E2 (PGEZ), Prostaglandin
D2, prostaglandin I2 (PGIZ, prostacyclin), and prostaglandin
Fla (PGan)

[0019] As used herein, the term “prostaglandin (PG) path-
way inhibitor” refers to agents that interact directly or
indirectly with one or more components involved in the
synthesis or action of PG on a target tissue, and interfere
with either the levels or the ultimate actions of prostaglandin
on the target tissue. PG pathway inhibitors include, but are
not limited to, PG inhibitors, prostaglandin transporter
(PGT) inhibitors and prostaglandin receptor (PGR) inhibi-
tors. The term “PG pathway inhibitor,” however, does not
include the analgesics deﬁned below.

[0020] The term “PG inhibitors,” as used herein, include
but are not limited to, inhibitors of PG synthesis and

Jan. 3], 2019

inhibitors of PG activity. The term “inhibitors of PG syn-
thesis,” as used herein, refers to agents that inhibit the
production of prostaglandin, such as agents that inhibit the
expression or activity of phospholipase A2, the prostaglan-
din synthases and the tissue speciﬁc isomerases and synthase
enzymes such as: Thromboxane synthase, PGF synthase,
cytosolic PG synthase (cPGES), prostaglandin I synthase
(PGIS) and the microsomal PGES enzymes (mPGES).
Examples of PG synthesis inhibitors include ﬂunixin meglu-
mine. As used herein, the terms “inhibitors of PG synthesis”
anc “PG synthesis inhibitors” do not include the analgesics
deﬁned below.

[0021] The term “inhibitors of PG activity,” as used
herein, refers to agents that antagonize the action of pros-
tag andin itself by any means. Agents that interfere solely
wit 1 the synthesis of prostaglandins, such as by interfering
wit the action of prostaglandin symthases, but which do not
interfere with the action of prostaglandins are not included
witiin the deﬁnition of inhibitors of PG activity as used in
this speciﬁcation.

[0022] The term “PGT inhibitors,” as used herein, refers to
agents that inhibits the expression or the activity of PG
transporters, such as ATP dependent multi-drug resistance
(M DR) transporter-4, or other MIDR channels such as
ABCCl, ABCCZ, ABCCS, ABCC6, ABCG2 and ABCBl 1,
Examples of PGT inhibitors that inhibit PGT activity
inc ude, but are not limited to, compounds that inhibit MDR
membrane pumps, such as triazine compounds. verapamil,
anc calcium channel blockers; channels include quinidines,
ketoconazole, itraconazole, azithromycin, valspodar,
cyclosporine, elacridar, fumitremorgin-C, geﬁtinib and
erythromycin. Examples of PGT inhibitors that inhibit PGT
expression include, but are not limited to, agents which
control the transcription of the MDR genes by targeting the
promoter region and/or transcription factors which bind to
the promoter or other gene control regions. The term “PGR
inhibitors,” as used herein, refers to agents that inhibits the
activity or expression of PGRs. In some embodiments, the
PGRs comprise E prostanoid receptor EPl, EP2, EP3, and
EP4 subtypes of the PGE receptor; PGD receptor (DPI);
PGF receptor (FP); PGI receptor (IP); and thromboxane
receptor (TP), Two additional isoforms of the human TP
(TPa and TPﬁ) and FF (FPA and FPB) and eight EP3
variants are generated through alternative splicing, which
dilfer only in their C-terminal tails. In some embodiments,
the PGRs ﬁuther comprise a G protein-coupled receptor
termed chemo-attractant receptor-homologous molecule
(CRHIVIE), In other embodiments, the PGRs include all of
the receptors that activate rhodopsin-like 7-transmembrane-
spanning G protein-coupled receptors.

[0023] Examples of PGR activity inhibitors include, but
are not limited to, anti-PGR antibodies and any agent that
inhibits the G-protein coupled receptor signaling pathway.
PGR expression inhibitors include agents that inhibit PGR
expression at the transcriptional level, translational level or
post transcriptional level. Examples of PGR expression
inhibitors include, but are not limited to, anti-PGR siRNA
and mi RNAs.

[0024] As used herein, the term “an effective amount"
means an amount necessary to achieve a selected result,
[0025] As used herein, the term “analgesic” refers to
agents, compounds or drugs used to relieve pain and inclu-
sive of anti-inﬂammatory compounds. Exemplary analgesic
and/or anti-inﬂammatory agents, compounds or drugs
US 2019/0029980 A1

Jan. 31, 2019

Patent Application Publication

it: .3 aria: resiksii, L 1.1.522 x» 2 s yLJ x:

 

m“ .OE

:21 883-8%.
n=<mzwo $09
.0
a .0
a a .o .o 9
0 0 0 . 0
@o 0.0 as so “90 s an0 00$ 0a
c3832 Ill. c
230.135]? , ON

6
q-

_.
‘
39.410... W.
.

cacaoczzﬁouq -nmli

COCO
Ncww
Fr-

r'““—7——WT~M1WP‘

:8
mm:— + n=<mz

5. .GE

:21 889983

E<mzswmoo
>9
0 A0
0 a 0 9
o o a .o. a a
“99 ca 00 “go. we s aov as no

an
new

  

om?

  

585». z '1'
new

SL033: Indll

5:34 la! 0mm

com

5.33.829; in:

8.“
9.2m n=<mz

CIIVSN anlmM |onu03 p waned)

5"” +08CID+OVCD
(19) United States
(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2019/0029980 A1

 

US 20190029980Al

 

DILL (43) Pub. Date: Jan. 31, 2019
(54) CODIPOSITION FOR REDUCING A61K 31/192 (2006.01)
FREQUENCY OF URINATION, METHOD OF A6IK 31/7088 (2006.01)
MAKING AND USE THEREOF A61K 31/44 (2006.01)
A61K 31/27 (2006101)
(71) Applicant: WELLESLEY A61K 31/437 (2006.01)
PHARMACEUTICALS, LLC, A61K 31/616 (2006.01)
Newtown, PA (US) A61K 31/122 (2006.01)
A61K 31/405 (2006.01)
(72) Inventor: David A. DILL, Newtown, PA (US) (52) US. Cl.
CPC ............ A61K 31/167 2013.01); A61K 45/06
(21) APPL N04 16/134,634 (2013.01); A61K 31/192 (2013.01); A61K
. ‘ 31/7088 (2013.01); A61K 31/44 (2013.01);
(22) F‘led‘ 591" 18’ 2°18 A61K 2300/00 (2013,01); A61K31/437
. . (2013.0l); A61K 31/616 (2013.01); A61K
Rem“ U'S' Appmm" D8” 31/122 (2013.01 ); A61K 31/405 (2013.01);
(63) Continuation of application No. 14/975,332, ﬁled on A61K 31/27 (2013.01)
Dec. 18, 2015, now Pat. No. 10,105,328, which is a
continuation-impart of application No. 14/298,511, (57) ABSTRACT
ﬁled on Jun. 6’ 2014’ now Pat. NO’ 9’532’959’ Pharmaceutical compositions for reducing frequency of uri-
, , V . , nation are disclosed. The pharmaceutical compositions com-
Publlcatlon Classiﬁcation 1 . 1 1 .
prise one or more prostaglandm pathway 1nh1b1tors and a
(51) Int. Cl. phannaceutically acceptable carrier. Also disclosed are
A61K 31/167 (2006101) methods of making and using the phaimaceutical composi-
A61K 45/06 (2006.01) lions.
US 2019/0029980 A1

include, but are not limited to, non<steroidal anti-inﬂamma-
tory drugs (NSAIDs), salicylates, aspirin, salicylic acid,
methyl salicylate, diﬂunisal, salsalate, olsalazine, sulfasala-
Zine, para-aminophenol derivatives, acetanilide, acetamino-
phen, phenacetin, fenamates, mefenamic acid, meclofena-
mate, sodium meclofenamate, heteroaryl acetic acid
derivatives, tolmetin, ketorolac, diclofenac, propionic acid
derivatives, ibuprofen, naproxen sodium, naproxen, feno-
profen, ketoprofen, ﬂurbiprofen, oxaprozin; enolic acids,
oxicam derivatives, piroxicam, meloxicam, tenoxicam,
ampiroxicam, droxicam, pivoxicam, pyrazolon derivatives,
phenylbutazone, oxyphenbutazone, antipyrine, aminopy-
rine, dipyrone, coxibs, celecoxib, rofecoxib, nabumetone,
apazone, indomethacin, sulindac, etodolac, isobutylphenyl
propionic acid, lumiracoxib, etoricoxib, parecoxib, Valde-
coxib, tiracoxib, etodolac, darbufelone, dexketoprofen, ace-
clofenac, licofelone, bromfenac, loxoprofen, pranoprofen,
piroxicam, nimesulide, cizolirine, 3-formylamino-7-methyl-
sulfonylamino-6-phenoxy-4H-l -benzopyran-4-one, meloxi-
cam, lomoxicam, d-indobufen, mofezolac, amtolmetin, pra-
noprofen, tolfenamic acid, ﬂurbiprofen, suprofen,
oxaprozin, zaltoprofen, alminoprofen, tiaprofenic acid,
pharmacological salts thereof, hydrates thereof, and solvates
thereof.

[0026] As used herein, the term “coxib” refers to a com-
pound or composition of compounds that is capable of
inhibiting the activity or expression of COXl and COX2
enzymes.

[0027] As used herein, the term “derivative” refers to a
chemically modiﬁed compound wherein the modiﬁcation is
considered routine by the ordinary skilled chemist, such as
an ester or an amide of an acid, or protecting groups such as
a benzyl group for an alcohol or thiol, or a tert-butoxycar-
bonyl group for an amine.

[0028] As used herein, the term “analogue” refers to a
compound which comprises a chemically modiﬁed form of
a speciﬁc compound or class thereof and which maintains
the pharmaceutical and/or pharmacological activities char-
acteristic of said compound or class.

[0029] As used herein, the term “pharmaceutically accept-
able salts” refer to derivatives of the disclosed compounds
wherein the parent compound is modiﬁed by making acid or
base salts thereof Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable
salts include, but are not limited to, mineral or organic acid
salts of basic residues such as amines, alkali or organic salts
of acidic residues such as carboxylic acids, and the like. The
pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the conventional
non-toxic salts or the quatemary ammonium salts of the
parent compound formed, for example, from non-toxic
inorganic or organic acids, For example, such conventional
non-toxic salts include those derived from inorganic acids
such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid,
sulfamic acid, phosphoric acid, nitric acid, and the like and
the salts prepared from organic acids such as acetic acid,
propionic acid, succinic acid, glycolic acid, stearic acid,
lactic acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, ascorbic acid,
pamoic acid, maleic acid, hydroxymaleic acid, phenylacetic
acid, glutamic acid, benzoic acid, salicylic acid, sulfanilic
acid, 2-acetoxybenzoic acid, fumaric acid, toluensulfonic
acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethane dislfonic acid, oxalic
acid, isethionic acid, and the like.

[0030] As used herein, the phrase “pharmaceutically
acceptable” is used with reference to compounds, materials,
compositions and/or dosage forms which are, within the

Jan. 3], 2019

scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact
with the tissues of human beings and animals without
excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response, or other
problems or complications commensurate with a reasonable
beneﬁt/risk ratio,

[0031] The term “immediate-release” is used herein with
reference to a drug formulation that does not contain a
dissolution rate controlling material. There is substantially
no delay in the release of the active agents following
administration of an immediate-release formulation. An
immediate-release coating may include suitable materials
immediately dissolving following administration so as to
release the drug contents therein. In some embodiments, the
term “inunediate-release” is used with reference to a drug
formulation that releases the active ingredient in less than 10
min, 20 min, 30 min, 40 min 50 min, 60 min, 90 min or 120
min after administration into a patient,

[0032] As used herein, the term “extended-release,” also
known as sustained-release (SR), sustained-action (SA),
time-release (TR), controlled-release (CR), modiﬁed release
(MR), or continuous-release (CR), refers to a mechanism
used in medicine tablets or capsules to dissolve slowly and
release the active ingredient over time. The advantages of
extended-release tablets or capsules are that they can often
be taken less frequently than immediate-release formula-
tions of the same drug and that they keep steadier levels of
the drug in the bloodstream, thus extending the duration of
the drug action and lowering the peak amount of drug in the
bloodstream. In some embodiments, the term “extended-
release" refers to a release proﬁle that the active ingredient
in a tablet or capsule is released over a period of 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22 or 24 hour, either
continuously or in pulses alter administration into a patient.
[0033] As used herein, the term “delayed-release” refers to
a drug release proﬁle that the release of the active ingredient
(s) of a pharmaceutical composition is delayed or postponed
for a given period oftime (e.g., l, 2, 3, 4 or 5 hours, or after
stomach) after administration of the pharmaceutical compo-
sition.

[0034] As used herein, the term “delayed-extended-re-
lease” refers to a drug release proﬁle that the release of the
active ingredient(s) of a pharmaceutical composition is
delayed or postponed for a given period of time (e.g., the lag
period of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 hours, or after stomach) after
administration of the pharmaceutical composition. Once the
release starts, the active ingredient(s) is released slowly over
time (e.g., over a period of 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, l2, 14,
16, 18, 20, 22 or 24 hour), either continuously or in pulses,

Method for Reducing Frequency of Urination

[0035] One aspect of the present application relates to a
method for reducing frequency of urination by administering
to a subject having a condition that results in an undesired
ﬁequency of urination an effective amount of a pharmaceu-
tical composition. The pharmaceutical composition com-
prises one or more PG pathway inhibitors and a pharma-
ceutically acceptable carrier. Conditions that result in an
undesired frequency of urination include, but are not limited
to, nocturia, overactive bladder, urinary incontinence and
bed wetting.

[0036] In some embodiments, the PG inhibitor is an
inhibitor of PG synthetase. Examples of inhibitors of PG
synthesis include, but are not limited to, inhibitors of PG
synthetase. (this is redundant) In other embodiments, the PG
US 2019/0029980 A1

inhibitor is an inhibitor of PG activity. Examples of inhibi-
tors of PG activity include, but are not limited to agents
which block the binding of PG to any of its receptors: EPI,
EP2, EP3, EP4, DPl, DP2, FP2, IP and TP. Examples of
these types of inhibitors include. but are not limited to, the
IP receptor inhibitor developed by Roche: R03244019,
ONO-85-39 which is an EPl receptor antagonist, the dual
EPl and EP2 receptor antagonist AH 6809, and the EP4
antagonist. RQ-15986. In certain embodiments, the one or
more PG pathway inhibitors comprise a PGT inhibitor. In
some embodiments, the PGT inhibitor is a PGT activity
inhibitor. Examples of PGT activity inhibitor include, but
are not limited to, anti-PGT antibodies, and any known
compound which can inhibit the ATP-dependent Multi drug
resistance transporter-4 or related MDR pumps that are
shown to transport PGs. In other embodiments, the PGT
inhibitor is a PGT expression inhibitor, Examples of PGT
expression inhibitor include, but are not limited to, anti-PGT
siRNA, antisense RNAs that target PGT mRNA, and agents
which control the transcription of the gene by inﬂuencing
DNA methylation and or chromatin modiﬁcation.

[0037] In some embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise an inhibitor that targets both the
COX active site and the PBX active site which are contained
in both COXl and COX2. In other embodiments, the one or
more PG pathway inhibitors comprise an inhibitor that
inhibits the PGE2 pathway.

[0038] In certain embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise a PGR inhibitor. PGRs are G-pro-
tein-coupled receptors containing seven transmembrane
domains. Examples of PGR include, EPl, EP2, EP3, EP4,
DPl. DP2, FP. IPl. 1P2, CRTH2 and TP receptors. In some
embodiments, the one or more PG pathway inhibitors com-
prise an inhibitor that inhibits any of the PG receptors listed
above. In some embodiments, the PGR inhibitor is a PGR
activity inhibitor. Examples of PGR activity inhibitor
include, but are not limited to, anti-PGR antibodies. In some
embodiments, the PGR inhibitor is an inhibitor of PGE2
receptor activity, such as EPl activity inhibitor, EP2 activity
inhibitor, EP3 activity inhibitor or EP4 activity inhibitori
[0039] In other embodiments, the PGR inhibitor is a PGR
expression inhibitor. Examples of PGR expression inhibitor
include, but are not limited to, anti-PGR siRNA, antisense
RNAs that target PGR mRNA, or agents which control the
transcription of the gene by inﬂuencing DNA methylation
and or chromatin modiﬁcation In some embodiments, the
PGR expression inhibitor is an inhibitor of PGE2 receptor
expression, such as EPl expression inhibitor, EP2 expres-
sion inhibitor, EP3 expression inhibitor or EP4 expression
inhibitor. In some embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise a small molecule inhibitor. As used
herein, the term “small molecule inhibitor" refers to inhibi-
tors having a molecular weight of 1000 dalton or less.
[0040] In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor
comprises a short interfering RNA (siRNA). An siRNA is a
double-stranded RNA that can be engineered to induce
sequence-speciﬁc post-transcriptional gene silencing of
mRNAs corresponding to a component of the PG pathway.
siRNAs exploit the mechanism of RNA interference (RNAi)
for the purpose of “silencing” gene expression of e.g.,
targeted PGE2 receptor genes. This “silencing” was origi-
nally observed in the context of transfecting double stranded
RNA (dsRNA) into cells. Upon entry therein, the dsRNA
was found to be cleaved by an RNase III-like enzyme, Dicer,

Jan. 3], 2019

into double stranded small interfering RNAs (siRNAs)
21-23 nucleotides in length containing 2 nucleotide over-
hangs on their 3‘ ends. In an ATP dependent step, the siRNAs
become integrated into a multi-subunit RNAi induced
silencing complex (RISC) which presents a signal for
AGO2-mediated cleavage of the complementary mRNA
sequence, which then leads to its subsequent degradation by
cellular exonucleases.

[0041] In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor
comprises a synthetic siRNA or other class of small RNA
targeting a PG synthase RNA, a PGT RNA or a PGR RNA
in the target cell/tissue. Synthetically produced siRNAs
structurally mimic the types of siRNAs normally processed
in cells by the enzyme Dicer. Synthetically produced siR-
NAs may incorporate any chemical modiﬁcations to the
RNA structure that are known to enhance siRNA stability
and functionality, For example, in some cases, the siRNAs
may be synthesized as a locked nucleic acid (LNA)-modi-
ﬁed siRNA. An LNA is a nucleotide analogue that contains
a methylene bridge connecting the 2'-oxygen of the ribosc
with the 4‘ carbon. The bicyclic structure locks the furanose
ring of the LNA molecule in a 3‘-endo conformation, thereby
structurally mimicking the standard RNA monomers,

[0042] In other embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor
comprises an expression vector engineered to transcribe a
short double—stranded hairpin-like RNA (shRNA) that is
processed into a targeted siRNA inside the cell. The shRNAs
can be cloned in suitable expression vectors using kits, such
as Ambion’s SILENCER® siRNA Construction Kit,
Imgenex’s GENESUPPRESSORTM Construction Kits and
Invitrogen’s BLOCK-ITTM inducible RNAi plasmid and
lentivirus vectors, Synthetic siRNAs and shRNAs may be
designed using well known algorithms and synthesized
using a conventional DNA/ RNA synthesizeri

[0043] In some embodiments, the secondary active agent
comprises an antisense oligonucleotide or polynucleotide
capable of inhibiting the expression of a component of the
PG pathway. The antisense oligonucleotide or polynucle-
otide may comprise a DNA backbone, RNA backbone or
chemical derivative thereof, In one embodiment, the anti-
sense oligonucleotide or polynucleotide comprises a single
stranded antisense oligonucleotide or polynucleotide target-
ing for degradation, In certain embodiments, the anti-in-
ﬂammatory agent comprises a single stranded antisense
oligonucleotide complementary to the mRNA sequence of a
component of the PG pathway. The single stranded antisense
oligonucleotide or polynucleotide may be synthetically pro-
duced or it may be expressed from a suitable expression
vector The antisense nucleic acid is designed to bind via
complementary binding to the mRNA sense strand so as to
promote RNase H activity, which leads to degradation of the
mRNA, Preferably, the antisense oligonucleotide is chemi-
cally or structurally modiﬁed to promote nuclease stability
and/or increased binding.

[0044] In some embodiments, the antisense oligonucle-
otides are modiﬁed to produce oligonucleotides with non-
conventional chemical or backbone additions or substitu-
tions, including, but not limited to, peptide nucleic acids
(PNAs), locked nucleic acids (LNAs), morpholino back-
boned nucleic acids, methylphosphonates, duplex stabilizing
stilbene or pyrenyl caps, phosphorothioates, phosphoroami-
dates, phosphotriesters and the like By way of example, the
modiﬁed oligonucleotides may incorporate or substitute one
or more of the naturally occurring nucleotides with an
US 2019/0029980 A1

[0055] In other embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise a biomolecule. As used herein, the
term “biomolecule” is any molecule that is produced by a
living organism, including large macromolecules such as
proteins, polysaccharides, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well
as small molecules such as primary metabolites, secondary
metabolites, and natural products,

[0056] In other embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise target neutralization agents, As
used herein, the term “target neutralization agent” refers to
antibodies, fragments of antibodies, or any other non-anti-
body peptide or synthetic binding molecule, such as an
aptamer or synbody, which is capable of speciﬁcally binding
directly or indirectly to a component of the PG pathway so
as to interfere with the ultimate actions of prostaglandin on
the target tissue,

[0057] The target neutralization agents may be produced
by any conventional method for generating high-afﬁnity
binding ligands, including SELEX, phage display and other
methodologies, including combinatorial chemistry and/or
high throughput methods known to those of skill in the art

[0058] An aptamer is a nucleic acid version ofan antibody
that comprises a class of oligonucleotides that can form
speciﬁc three dimensional structures exhibiting high afﬁnity
binding to a Wide variety of cell surface molecules, proteins
and/or macromolecular structures. Aptamers are commonly
identiﬁed by an in vitro method of selection sometimes
referred to as Systematic Evolution of Ligands y EXpo-
nential enrichment or “SELEX,” SELEX typica ly begins
with a very large pool of randomized polynucleotides which
is generally narrowed to one aptamer ligand per molecular
target. Typically, aptamers are small nucleic acics ranging
from 15-50 bases in length that fold into deﬁned secondary
and tertiary stmctures, such as stem-loops or G- uartets.

[0059] An aptamer can be chemically linked or conjugated
to the above described nucleic acid inhibitors to form
targeted nucleic acid inhibitors, such as aptamer-siRNA
chimeras, An aptamer-siRNA chimera contains a targeting
moiety in the form of an aptamer which is lin ed to an
siRNA. When using an aptamer-siRNA chimera, it is pref-
erable to use a cell internalizing aptamer. Upon binding to
speciﬁc cell surface molecules, the aptamer can facilitate
intemalimtion into the cell where the nucleic acic inhibitor
acts, In one embodiment both the aptamer and tie siRNA
comprises RNA. The aptamer and the siRNA may comprise
any nucleotide modiﬁcations as further described herein,
Preferably, the aptamer comprises a targeting moiety spe-
ciﬁcally directed to binding cells expressing the chemokine-,
cytokine- and/or receptor target genes, such as ymphoid,
epithelial cell and/or endothelial cells,

[0060] Synbodies are synthetic antibodies produced from
libraries comprised of strings of random peptides screened
for binding to target proteins of interest,

[0061] Target neutralization agents, including aptamers
and synbodies, can be engineered to bind target molecules
very tightly with de between 10‘10 to 10‘12 M, In some
embodiments, the target neutralization agent binds the target
molecule with a Kd less than 10—6, less than 10-3, less than
10”, less than 10'10 or less than 10'12 M.

[0062] In certain embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise a polynucleotide that encodes and
is adapted to express a PGT inhibitor and/or a PGR inhibitor.
In other embodiments, the one or more PG pathway inhibi-

 

Jan. 3], 2019

tors comprise an expression vector that encodes and is
adapted to express a PGT inhibitor and/or a PGR inhibitor.
[0063] In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor is
an engineered protein containing a TALE sequence or and
engineered zinc ﬁnger directed at the gene encoding any
component of the PG pathway, This TALE or zinc ﬁnger
could be designed to bind directly to the gene and inhibit its
expression by cleaving the gene, altering its nucleotide
sequence, or tethering a repressor protein to the gene which
serves to silence the gene.

[0064] In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor is
produced using the CRISPR/CAS system. In this strategy a
guide molecule speciﬁc for the gene sequence of each pg
pathway gene is designed and introduced into the cell or
tissue using delivery systems described above (viruses,
plasmids, etc), The action of the CRISPR/CAS system
would modify the DNA sequence of the gene such that the
PG pathway gene is deleted or inhibited in ability to express
the RNA.

[0065] In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor is
capable of turning of the transcription of one or more PG
pathway genes by targeting the chromatin associated
enzymes which post translationally modify histories in chro-
matin, Examples of such enzymes are (but not limited to)
histone deacetylases, histone demethylases, histone acetyl-
transferases, histone methyltransferases, and helicases.
[0066] In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor
targets the gene encoding each component by altering the
DNA methylation status of the gene, Compounds which
target the TET family of DNA demethylases and the DNA
methyltransferases (DNMTl, DNMTa and DNMTb) could
change the expression of RNA from the any of the genes in
the PG pathway.

[0067] The expression vector of the present application
comprises a polynucleotide encoding a PG pathway inhibi-
tor or a portion thereof The expression vectors also include
one or more regulatory sequences operably linked to the
polynucleotide being expressed. These regulatory sequences
are selected based on the type of host cells. It will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the design of the
expression vector depends on such factors as the choice of
the host cells and the desired expression levels,

[0068] In some embodiments, the expression vector is a
plasmid vector. In other embodiments, the expression vector
is a viral vector. Examples of viral vectors include, but are
not limited to, retrovirus, lentivirus, adenovir'us, adeno-
associated virus (AAV), herpes virus, or alphavirus vectors.
The viral vectors can also be astrovirus, coronavir'us,
orthomyxovirus, papovavirus, paramyxovirus, parvovirus,
picornavirus, poxvirus, or togavirus vectors. When used in
mammalian cells, the expression vector’s control functions
are often provided by viral regulatory elements. For
example, commonly used promoters are derived from
polyoma, adenovirus 2, cytomegalovirus and Simian Virus
40, In some embodiments, the expression vector contains
tissue-speciﬁc regulatory elements, Delivery of the expres-
sion vector include, but are not limited to, direct infection
with viral vectors, exposing target tissue to polycationic
condensed DNA linked or unlinked to killed virus, ligand
linked DNA, gene guns, ionizing radiation, nucleic charge
neutralization, or fusion with cell membranes. Naked plas-
mid or viral DNA can also be employed, Uptake efﬁciency
may be improved using biodegradable latex beads. This
method can be further improved by treating the beads to
US 2019/0029980 A1

analog; internucleotide modiﬁcations incorporating, for
example, uncharged linkages (e.g., methyl phosphonates,
phosphotriesters, phosphoamidates, carbamates, etc.) or
charged linkages (eg, phosphorothioates, phosphorodithio-
ates, etc); modiﬁcations incorporating intercalators (e.g,,
acridine, psoralen, etcl), chelators (eg, metals, radioactive
metals, boron, oxidative metals, etc,) or alkylators and/or
modiﬁed linkages (eg, alpha anomeric nucleic acids, etc.)
[0045] In some embodiments, the single stranded oligo-
nucleotides are internally modiﬁed to include at least one
neutral charge in its backbone, For example, the oligonucle-
otide may include a methylphosphonate backbone or peptide
nucleic acid (PNA) complementary to the target-speciﬁc
sequence. These modiﬁcations have been found to prevent
or reduce helicase-mediated unwinding. The use of
uncharged probes may further increase the rate of hybrid-
ization to polynucleotide targets in a sample by allewiating
the repulsion of negatively-charges nucleic acid strands in
classical hybridization.

[0046] PNA oligonucleotides are uncharged nucleic acid
analogs for which the phosphodiester backbone has been
replaced by a polyamide, which makes PNAs a polymer of
2-aminoethyl-glycine units bound together by an amide
linkage. PNAs are synthesized using the same Boc or Fmoc
chemistry as are use in standard peptide synthesis. Bases
(adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine) are linked to the
backbone by a methylene carboxyl linkage. Thus, PNAs are
acyclic, achiral and neutral. Other properties of PNAs are
increased speciﬁcity and melting temperature as compared
to nucleic acids, capacity to form triple helices, stability at
acid pH, non-recognition by cellular enzymes like nucleases,
polymerases, etc.

[0047] Methylphosphonate-containing oligonucleotides
are neutral DNA analogs containing a methyl group in place
of one of the non-bonding phosphoryl oxygens. Oligonucle-
otides with methylphosphonate linkages were among the
ﬁrst reported to inhibit protein synthesis via anti-sense
blockade of translation,

[0048] In some embodiments, the phosphate backbone in
the oligonucleotides may contain phosphorothioate linkages
or phosphoroarnidates, Combinations of such oligonucle-
otide linkages are also within the scope of the present
invention,

[0049] In other embodiments, the oligonucleotide may
contain a backbone of modiﬁed sugars joined by phosphodi-
ester intemucleotide linkages. The modiﬁed sugars may
include furanose analogs, including but not limited to 2-de-
oxyribofuranosides, oL-D-arabinofuranosides, a-2'-deoxyri-
bofuranosides and 2‘,3‘-dideoxy-3‘—aminoribofuranosides, In
alternative embodiments, the 2-deoxy-B-D-ribofuranose
groups may be replaced with other sugars, for example,
[3-D-ribofuranose. In addition, ﬁ-D-ribofuranose may be
present wherein the 2-OH of the ribose moiety is alkylated
with a Cl-6 alkyl group (2-(0~C1-6 alkyl) ribose) or with
a C2-6 alkenyl group (2-(04C2-6 alkenyl) ribose) or is
replaced by a ﬁuoro group (2-ﬂuororibose).

[0050] Related oligomer—forming sugars include those
used in locked nucleic acids (LNA) as described above,
Exemplary LNA oligonucleotides include modiﬁed bicyclic
monomeric units with a 2‘-O-4'-C methylene bridge, such as
those described in US, Pat. No. 6,268,490,

[0051] Chemically modiﬁed oligonucleotides may also
include, singly or in any combination, 2'-position sugar
modiﬁcations, 5-position pyrimidine modiﬁcations (e.g,,

Jan. 3], 2019

5-(N-benzylcarboxyamide)-2‘-deoxyuridine, 5-(N-isobutyl-
carhoxyamide)—2‘-deoxyuridine, 5-(N-[2-(lH-indole-3yl)
ethyl]carboxyamide)-2'-deoxyuridine, 5-(N-[ l -(3-trimethyl-
ammonium) propyl]carboxyamide)-2'-deoxyuridine
chloride, 5 -(N-napthylcarboxyamide)-2'-deoxyuridine,
5 -(N-[ l - (2,3 -dihydroxypropyl )] carboxyamide)-2‘ -dcoxyuri -
dine), 8-position purine modiﬁcations, modiﬁcations at exo-
cyclic amines, substitution of 4-thiouridine, substitution of
5-bromo- or 5-iodo-uracil, methylations, unusual base-pair-
ing combinations, such as the isobases isocytidine and
isoguanidine and the like.

[0052] In some embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise a ribozyme capable of inhibiting the
expression of a component of the PG pathway. Ribozymes
are nucleic acid molecules that are capable of catalyzing a
chemical reaction, either intramolecularly or intermolecu-
larly. Ribozymes are thus catalytic nucleic acid, It is pre-
ferred that the ribozymes catalyze intermolecular reactions.
There are a number of different types of ribozymes that
catalyze nuclease or nucleic acid polymerase type reactions
which are based on ribozymes found in natural systems,
such as hammerhead ribozymes, hairpin ribozymes and
tetrahymena ribozymes. There are also a number of
ribozymes that are not found in natural systems, but which
have been engineered to catalyze speciﬁc reactions de novo.
Preferred ribozymes cleave RNA or DNA substrates and
more preferably cleave RNA substrates, such as mRNAs of
components of the PG pathway, Ribozymes typically cleave
nucleic acid substrates through recognition and binding of
the target substrate with subsequent cleavage. This recog-
nition is often based mostly on canonical or non-canonical
base pair interactions. This property makes ribozymes par-
ticularly good candidates for target speciﬁc cleavage of
nucleic acids because recognition of the target substrate is
based on the target substrates sequence.

[0053] In some embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise triplex forming oligonucleotide
capable of inhibiting the expression of a component of the
PG pathway. Triplex forming oligonucleotides (TFOs) are
molecules that can interact with either double-stranded
and/or single-stranded nucleic acids, including both coding
and non-coding regions in genomic DNA targets, When
TFOs interact with a target region, a structure called a triplex
is formed, in which there are three strands of DNA forming
a complex dependant on both Watson-Crick and Hoogsteen
base-pairing. TFOs can bind target regions with high aﬂinity
and speciﬁcity. In preferred embodiments, the triplex form-
ing molecules bind the target molecule with a Kd less than
10-6, 10-8, 10-10 or 10-12, Exemplary TFOs for use in the
present invention include PNAs, LNAs and LNA modiﬁed
PNAs, such as Zorro-LNAs.

[0054] In some embodiments, the one or more PG path-
way inhibitors comprise an external guide sequences (EGS).
External guide sequences (EGSs) are molecules that bind a
target nucleic acid molecule forming a complex. This com-
plex is recognized by RNase P, which cleaves the target
molecule. EGSs can be designed to speciﬁcally target an
mRNA molecule of choice, RNAse P aids in processing
transfer RNA (tRNA) within a cell. Bacterial RNAse P can
be recruited to cleave virtually any RNA sequence by using
an EGS that causes the target RNA1EGS complex to mimic
the natural tRNA substrate, Similarly, eukaryotic EGS/
RNAse P-directed cleavage of RNA can be utilized to cleave
desired targets within eukaryotic cells.
US 2019/0029980 A1

inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor. In some embodiments, the PG
pathway inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting of
inhibitors of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis, inhibi-
tors ofPGT activity, inhibitors of PGT expression, inhibitors
of PGR activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression.

[0215] In some embodiments, the extended-release com-
ponent is formulated for extended release over a period of
05-24, 2-6, 6-10, 10-14, or 14-24 hours. In some embodi-
ments, the extended-release component is formulated for
extended release over a period of about 8 hours. In some
embodiments, the extended-release component is coated
with a delayed-release coating. In some embodiments, the
delayed-release coating delays the release of the extended-
release component fora period of0.l-l2, 05-12, 1-12, 2-12,
1-4, 2-4, 4-8 or 8-12 hours, In some embodiments, the
delayed-release coating is an enteric coating. In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition with an
immediate-release component and an extended-release com-
ponent is formulated into an orally disintegrating tablet,
[0216] As used herein, the term “orally disintegrating
tablet” or “orally disintegrating formulation” refers to drug
tablet or formulation that rapidly disintegrates or dissolves
in the oral cavity, Orally disintegrating formulations diiTer
from traditional tablets in that they are designed to be
dissolved on the tongue rather than swallowed whole. In
some embodiments, the orally disintegrating formulations
are designed to completely disintegrate or dissolve in the
oral cavity without the aid of additional water (i.e., in saliva
only) in 5, 10, 20, 30, 60, 90, 120, 180, 240 or 300 seconds.
[0217] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition with an immediate-release component and an
extended-release component is formulated into a liquid form
for oral administration. Examples of the liquid form formu-
lation include, but are not limited to, gels, emulsions and
particle suspensions, For example, the extended-release
component may be formulated into a gel form that solidiﬁes
in the stomach. In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition with an immediate-release component and an
extended-release component is formulated into a pixie pack
of powder that can quickly melt on the tongue. In some
embodiments, the immediate-release component or the
extended release component or both further comprise one or
more additional agents selected from the group consisting of
antimuscarinic agents, spasmolytics and antidiuretic agents.

Method of Manufacture

[0218] Another aspect of the present application relates to
methods of manufacturing extended-release pharmaceutical
compositions for reducing the frequency of urination. In
some embodiments, the method comprises the steps of
forming a ﬁrst mixture having a ﬁrst active ingredient
formulated for immediate release and a second active ingre-
dient formulated for extended release; coating the ﬁrst
mixture with a delayed release coating to form a core
structure; and then coating the core structure with a second
mixture comprising a third active ingredient formulated for
immediate release and a fourth active ingredient formulated
for extended release. In one embodiment, at least one of the
ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises
an analgesic agent and at least one of the ﬁrst, second, third
and fourth active ingredients comprises a PG pathway
inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR
inhibitor. In some embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor is
selected from the groups consisting of inhibitors of PG

Jan. 3], 2019

activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis, inhibitors of PGT activ-
ity, inhibitors of PGT expression, inhibitors of PGR activity,
and inhibitors of PGR expression.

[0219] In some embodiments, the analgesic agent is
selected from the group consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen,
naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabumetone and
acetaminophen, and wherein at least one of the ﬁrst, second,
third and fourth active ingredients comprises 5 mg to 2000
mg of the analgesic agent.

[0220] In some embodiments, at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises (1) an
analgesic agent selected from the group consisting of aspi-
rin, ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin,
nabumetone, and acetaminophen, and (2) a PG pathway
inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR
inhibitor.

[0221] In some embodiments, the at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises (1)
acetaminophen, and (2) a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a
PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor.

[0222] In some embodiments, the at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises an
agent selected from the group consisting antimuscarinic
agents, antidiuretic agents and spasmolytics.

[0223] In some embodiments, the delayed release coating
is an enteric coating. In some embodiments, the enteric
coating comprises a pH-dependent polymer. In some
embodiments, the delayed release coating comprises a
swelling layer covered by an outer semi-permeable polymer
layer. In some embodiments, the delayed release coating is
formulated to release the coated material after a lag time of
01-12 hours, 05-12 hours, 1-12 hours, 2-12 hours, 1-4
hours, 2-4 hours, 2-6 hours, 2-8 hours, 4-6 hours or 4-8
hours after oral administration.

[0224] In some embodiments, the second active ingredi-
ent, or the fourth active ingredient or both comprise an
active core comprising an extended-release coating or a
polymeric matrix effecting diffusion controlled release.
[0225] In some embodiments, the ﬁrst mixture is prepared
by mixing the ﬁrst active ingredient in liquid or powder form
with the second active ingredient, which is formulated for
extended release. As described above, the second active
ingredient may be formulated in an extended release for-
mulation having an active core comprised of one or more
inert particles, each in the form of a bead, pellet, pill,
granular particle, microcapsule, microsphere, microgranule,
nanocapsule, or nanosphere coated on its surfaces with
drugs in the form of eg, a drug-containing coating or
ﬁlm-forming composition using, for example, ﬂuid bed
techniques or other methodologies known to those of skill in
the art. The inert particle can be of various sizes, so long as
it is large enough to remain undissolved. Alternatively, the
active core may be prepared by granulating and milling
and/or by extrusion and spheronization of a polymer com-
position containing the drug substance. In some embodi-
ments, the active core comprises an extended-relwse coat-
ing or a polymeric matrix etfecting ditfusion controlled
release, as described in more detail earlier In some embodi-
ments, the polymeric matrix is a water soluble or water-
swellable matrix. In some embodiments, the second active
ingredient is simply mixed with the ﬁrst active ingredient.
Either ingredient or both ingredients may be in the form of
head, pellet, granular particle, pill, microcapsule, micro-
sphere, microgranule, nanocapsule or nanosphere as a pow-
US 2019/0029980 A1
21

release its subcomponent aﬁer gastric emptying, wherein the
subcomponents in the second component each comprises an
active ingredient comprising one or more agents selected
from the group consisting of analgesic agents and a PG
pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor. a PGT inhibitor or
a PGR inhibitor In some embodiments, the PG pathway
inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting of inhibitors
of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis, inhibitors of PGT
activity, inhibitors of PGT expression, inhibitors of PGR
activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression.

[0203] In some embodiments, the one or more analgesic
agents are selected from the group consisting of aspirin,
ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabu-
metone, and acetaminophen.

[0204] In some related embodiments, the second compo-
nent is formulated to release the subcomponents after a lag
time of 2-12 hours, 2-4 hours, 2-6 hours, 2-8 hours, or 4-8
hours following oral administration.

[0205] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in the immediate-release subcomponent and the extended-
release subcomponent of the second component comprises
one or more analgesic agents.

[0206] In some related embodiments, the ﬁrst component
further comprises an extended-release subcomponent,
wherein the extended-release subcomponent comprises an
active ingredient comprising one or more agents selected
from the group consisting of analgesic agents and a PG
pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or
a PGR inhibitor, In some embodiments, the one or more
agents comprises an analgesic agent selected from the group
consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen
sodium, indomethacin, nabumetone, and acetaminophen.
[0207] In some embodiments, the immediate-release sub-
component and the extended-release subcomponent in the
second component each comprises a PG pathway inhibitor,
such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor
[0208] In some related embodiments, at least one of the
active ingredients in the immediate-release subcomponent
and/or the extended-release subcomponent of the ﬁrst and
the second components further comprises an agent selected
from the group consisting of antimuscarinic agents, antidi-
uretic agents and spasmolytics:

[0209] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in the immediate-release subcomponent and/or the
extended-release subcomponent of the ﬁrst component fur-
ther comprises an agent selected from the group consisting
of antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretic agents and spasmolyt-
ICS:

[0210] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in the immediate-release subcomponent and/or the
extended-release subcomponent of the second component
further comprises an agent selected from the group consist-
ing of antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretic agents and spas-
molytics.

[0211] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a pharmaceutical composition that comprises a ﬁrst compo-
nent comprising an immediate-release subcomponent and an
extended-release subcomponent, wherein the ﬁrst compo-
nent is fomiulated to release the subcomponents immedi-
ately alter administration; and a second component com-
prising an immediate-release subcomponent and an
extended-release subcomponent, wherein the second com-
ponent is formulated for a delayed-release of the subcom-
ponents, wherein the inunediate-release subcomponent and

Jan. 31, 2019

the extended-release subcomponent in the ﬁrst component
each comprises an active ingredient comprising one or more
analgesic agents and a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG
inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor. and wherein
the immediate-release subcomponent and the extended-re-
lease subcomponent in the second component each com-
prises an active ingredient comprising one or more analgesic
agents and a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor,
a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor, wherein the pharma-
ceutical composition reduces the frequency of urination in
patients in need thereof: In some embodiments, the PG
pathway inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting of
inhibitors of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis, inhibi-
tors of PGT activity, inhibitors of PGT expression, inhibitors
of PGR activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression.

[0212] In some embodiments, the one or more analgesic
agents are selected from the group consisting of aspirin,
ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabu-
metone, and acetaminophen. In some embodiments, the one
or more analgesic agents comprise acetaminophen.

[0213] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a pair of analgesic agents. Examples of
such paired analgesic agents include, but are not limited to,
acetaminophen and an NSAID, acetylsalicylic acid and
ibuprofen, acetylsalicylic acid and naproxen sodium, ace-
tylsalicylic acid and nabumetone, acetylsalicylic acid and
acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid and indomethancin, ibu-
profen and naproxen sodium, ibuprofen and nabumetone,
ibuprofen and acetaminophen, ibuprofen and indomethan-
cin, naproxen sodium and nabumetone, naproxen sodium
and acetaminophen, naproxen sodium and indomethancin,
nabumetone and acetaminophen, nabumetone and indo-
methancin, and acetaminophen and indomethancin. The
paired analgesic agents are mixed at a weight ratio in the
range of 0.1:1 to 10:1, 02:1 to 5:1 or 0.3:1 to 3:1 with a
combined dose or single dose (ire, the dose for each
analgesic) in the range of 5 mg to 2000 mg, 20 mg to 2000
mg, 100 mg to 2000 mg, 200 mg to 2000 mg, 500 mg to
2000 mg, 5 mg to 1500 mg, 20 mg to 1500 mg, 100 mg to
1500 mg, 200 mg to 1500 mg, 500 mg to 1500 mg, 5 mg to
1000 mg, 20 mg to 1000 mg, 100 mg to 1000 mg, 250 mg
to 500 mg, 250 mg to 1000 mg, 250 mg to 1500 mg, 500 mg
to 1000 mg, 500 mg to 1500 mg, 1000 mg to 1500 mg, and
1000 mg to 2000 mg. In one embodiment, the paired
analgesic agents are mixed at a weight ratio of 1:1.

[0214] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a pharmaceutical composition that comprises an immediate-
release component and an extended-release component.
Each component comprises a pair of analgesic agents as
described above and a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG
inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor, In some
embodiments, the immediate-release component and the
extended-release component comprise different pairs of
analgesic agents In some embodiments, the immediate-
release component and the extended-release component
comprise the same pair of analgesic agents. In some embodi-
ments, the immediate-release component and the extended-
release component each comprises acetaminophen and an
NSAID, In some embodiments, the immediate-release com-
ponent and the extended-release component each comprises
acetaminophen and ibuprofen In some embodiments, the
immediate-release component and the extended-release
component each consists of acetaminophen, ibuprofen and a
PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT
US 2019/0029980 A1

release rate over that given period of time. For example, if
80 mg of aspirin is released at a steady rate over a period of
8 hours, the average release rate is 10 mg/hr during this
period of time and the actual release rate at any time during
this period is within the range of3 mg/hr to 30 mg/hr (i.e.,
within 30%—300% of the average release rate of 10 mg/hr
during the 8 hour period). In some embodiments, the phar-
maceutical composition further comprises an antirnuscarinic
agent, an antidiuretic a spasmolytic, zolpidem or a PDE 5
inhibitor.

[0180] In some embodiments, the analgesic agent is
selected from the group consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen,
naproxen sodium, naproxen, indomethacin, nabumetone and
acetaminophen. In one embodiment, the analgesic agent is
acetaminophen. The pharmaceutical composition is formu-
lated to provide a steady release of small amount of the
analgesic agent to maintain an elfective drug concentration
in the blood such that the overall amount of the drug in a

single dosage is reduced compared to the immediate release
formulation.

[0181] In some other embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition comprises one or more analgesic agent(s),
individually or in combination, in an amount between
10-1000 mg, 10-800 mg, 10-600 mg, 10-500 mg, 10-400
mg, 10-300 mg, 10-250 mg, 10-200 mg, 10-150 mg, 10-100
mg 30-1000 mg, 30-800 mg, 30-600 mg, 30-500 mg, 30-400
mg, 30-300 mg, 30-250 mg, 30-200 mg, 30-150 mg, 30-100
mg, 100-1000 mg, 100-800 mg, 100-600 mg, 100-400 mg,
100-250 mg, 300-1000 mg, 300-800 mg, 300-600 mg,
300-400 mg, 400-1000 mg, 400-800 mg, 400-600 mg,
600-1000 mg, 600-800 mg or 800-1000 mg, wherein the
analgesic agent(s) are formulated for extended release, char-
acterized by a two-phase release proﬁle in which 20-80% of
the analgesic agent(s) are released within 2 hours of admiri-
istration and the remainder are released continuously, or at
a steady rate, over a period of 2-12 hours or 5-8 hours. In yet
another embodiment, the analgesic agent(s) is formulated
for extended-release with a two-phase release proﬁle in
which 20, 30, 40, 50 or 60% of the analgesic agent(s) are
released within 2 hours of administration and the remainder
are released continuously, or at a steady rate, over a period
of 2-1 2 hours or 5-8 hours. In one embodiment, the analgesic
agent(s) are selected from the group consisting of aspirin,
ibuprofen, naproxen sodium, naproxen, indomethacin, nabu-
metone, and acetaminophen. In one embodiment, the anal-
gesic agent is acetaminophen. In another embodiment, the
analgesic agent is acetaminophen. In some embodiments,
the pharmaceutical composition further comprises an anti-
muscarinic agent, an antidiuretic, a spasmolytic, zolpidem
and/or a PDE 5 inhibitor. In some embodiments, the anti-
muscarinic agent, antidiuretic, spasmolytic, zolpidem and/or
PDE 5 inhibitor is/are formulated for immediate-release.

[0182] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a method for reducing frequency of urination by adminis-
tering to a subject in need thereof, two or more PG pathway
inhibitors alternatively to prevent the development of drug
resistance. In one embodiment, the method comprises
administering a ﬁrst PG pathway inhibitor for a ﬁrst period
of time and then administering a second PG pathway inhibi-
tors for a second period of time. In another embodiment, the
method further comprises administering a third PG pathway
inhibitor for a third period of time. The ﬁrst, second, and
third PG pathway inhibitors are different from each other

Jan. 3], 2019

and may be formulated for immediate-release, extended-
release, delayed-release or combinations thereof

[0183] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a method for treating nocturia by administering to a person
in need thereof a diuretic, followed with the pharmaceutical
composition of the present application. The diuretic is dosed
and formulated to have a diuretic effect within 6 hours of
administration and is administered at least 8 or 7 hours prior
to bedtime. The pharmaceutical composition of the present
application is formulated for extended-release or delayed,
extended-release, and is administered within 2 hours prior to
bedtime.

[0184] Examples of diuretics include, but are not limited
to, acidifying salts, such as CaCl2 and NHACI; arginine
vasopressin receptor 2 antagonists, such as amphotericin B
and lithium citrate; aquaretics, such as Goldenrod and Juni-
per; NaiH exchanger antagonists, such as dopamine; car-
bonic anhydrase inhibitors, such as acetazolamide and dor-
zolamide; loop diuretics, such as bumetanide, ethacrynic
acid, furosemide and torsemide; osmotic diuretics, such as
glucose and mannitol; potassium-sparing diuretics, such as
amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene, potassium canreno-
ate; thiazides, such as bendroﬂumethiazide and hydrochlo-
rothiazide; and xanthines, such as caffeine, theophylline and
theobromine.

[0185] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a method for reducing the frequency of urination, compris-
ing administering to a subject in need thereof an effective
amount of the pharmaceutical composition of the present
application and an effective amount of botulinum toxin.

[0186] In some embodiments, the botulinum toxin is
administered by injection into a bladder muscle; and orally
administering to the subject the pharmaceutical composition
of the present application. In some embodiments, the inject-
ing step comprises injection of 10-200 units of botulinum
toxin at 5-20 sites in bladder muscle with an injection dose
of 2-10 units per site. In one embodiment, the injecting step
comprises injection of botulinum toxin at 5 sites in bladder
muscle with an injection dose of 2-10 units per site. In
another embodiment, the injecting step comprises injection
of botulinum toxin at 10 sites in bladder muscle at an
injection dose of 2-10 units per site. In another embodiment,
the injecting step comprises injection of botulinum toxin at
15 sites in bladder muscle at an injection dose of 2-10 units
per site. In yet another embodiment, the injecting step
comprises injection of botulinum toxin at 20 sites in bladder
muscle at an injection dose of 2-10 units per site. In some
embodiments, the injecting step is repeated every 3, 4, 6, 8,
10 or 12 months.

[0187] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises one or more analgesic agents selected from
the group consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen,
naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabumetone and acet-
aminophen in an amount of 5-2000 mg per agent, and one
or more spasmoly‘tics selected from the group consisting of
carisoprodol, benzodiazepines, baclofen, cyclobenzaprine,
metaxalone, methocarbamol, clonidine, clonidine analog,
and dantrolene in a total amount of 50-500 mg, wherein the
pharmaceutical composition is formulated for extended
release with a two-phase release proﬁle in which 20-60% of
the active ingredients are released within 2 hours of admin-
istration, and the remainder are released continuously, or at
a steady rate, in a period of 5-24 hours, 5-8 hours, 8-16 hours
or 16-24 hours.
US 2019/0029980 A1

[0188] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a pharmaceutical composition that comprises a ﬁrst compo-
nent having an immediate-release subcomponent and an
extended-release subcomponent, wherein the ﬁrst compo-
nent is formulated to release the subcomponents immedi-
ately alter administration; and a second component com-
prising an immediate-release subcomponent and an
extended-release subcomponent, wherein the second com-
ponent is formulated for a delayed-release of the subcom-
ponents. In some embodiments, at least one of the subcom-
ponents in the ﬁrst component or the second component
comprises an active ingredient comprising one or more
analgesic agents, and at least one of the subcomponents in
the ﬁrst component or the second component comprises an
active ingredient comprising a PG pathway inhibitor, such as
a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor. In some
embodiments, the PG pathway inhibitor is selected from the
groups consisting of inhibitors of PG activity, inhibitors of
PG synthesis, inhibitors of PGT activity, inhibitors of PGT
expression, inhibitors of PGR activity, and inhibitors of PGR
expression.

[0189] In some embodiments, each of the subcomponents
in the ﬁrst component or the second component comprises
an active ingredient comprising one or more analgesic
agents and/or a PG pathway inhibitor. such as a PG inhibitor,
a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor.

[0190] In some embodiments, the one or more analgesic
agents are selected from the group consisting of aspirin,
ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabu-
metone, and acetaminophen.

[0191] In some related embodiments, the immediate-rc-
lease subcomponent and the extended-release subcompo-
nent in the ﬁrst component each comprises an active ingre-
dient comprising one or more analgesic agents, and/or a PG
pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or
a PGR inhibitor. In other embodiments, the immediate-
release subcomponent and the extended-release subcompo-
nent in the second component each comprises an active
ingredient comprising one or more analgesic agents, and/or
a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT
inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor.

[0192] In some embodiments, the one or more analgesic
agents comprise acetaminophen. In yet other embodiments,
at least one of the subcomponents in the ﬁrst component or
the second component comprises an active ingredient com-
prising one or more analgesic agents and a PG pathway
inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR
inhibitor.

[0193] In some related embodiments, the second compo-
nent is coated with an enteric coating.

[0194] In some related embodiments, the second compo-
nent is formulated to release the subcomponents after a lag
time of 1-4 or 2-4 hours or 4-8 hours following oral
administration.

[0195] In some related embodiments, the extended-release
subcomponent in the ﬁrst component is formulated to
release its active ingredient over a time interval of about
2-10 hours.

[0196] In some related embodiments, the extended-release
subcomponent in the second component is formulated to
relwse its active ingredient over a time interval of about
2-10 hours,

[0197] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in the immediate-release subcomponent and the extended-

Jan. 31, 2019

release subcomponent in the ﬁrst component further com-
rises an antimuscarinic agent. In some embodiments, the
active ingredient in the immediate-release subcomponent
and the extended-release subcomponent in the second com-
ponent further comprises an antimuscarinic agent, In some
embodiments, the active ingredient in the immediate-release
subcomponent and the extended-release subcomponent in
Joth the ﬁrst and the second component further comprises an
antimuscarinic agent.

[0198] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in the immediate-release subcomponent and the extended-
release subcomponent in the ﬁrst component further com-
rises an antidiuretic agent. In some embodiments, the
active ingredient in the immediate-release subcomponent
and the extended-release subcomponent in the second com-
Jonent further comprises an antidiuretic agent. In some
embodiments, the active ingredient in the immediate-release
subcomponent and the extended-release subcomponent in
30th the ﬁrst and the second component further comprises an
antidiuretic agent,

[0199] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in the immediate-release subcomponent and the extended-
release subcomponent in the ﬁrst component further com-
Jrises a spasmolytic. In some embodiments, the active
ingredient in the immediate-release subcomponent and the
extended-release subcomponent in the second component
urther comprises a spasmolytic. In some embodiments, the
active ingredient in the immediate-release subcomponent
and the extended-release subcomponent in both the ﬁrst and
the second component further comprises a spasmolytic.
[0200] In some related embodiments, the immediate-re-
lease subcomponent and the extended-release subcompo-
nent in the ﬁrst component each comprises an analgesic
agent, such as acetaminophen, in an amount of 5-2000 mg.
In some embodiments, the immediate-release subcomponent
an the extended-release subcomponent in the second com-
ponent each comprises an analgesic agent, such as acet-
aminophen, in an amount of 5-2000 mg, In some embodi-
ments, the active ingredient in the immediate-release
subcomponent and the extended-release subcomponent in
bot the ﬁrst and the second component each comprises an
aria gesic agent, such as acetaminophen, in an amount of
5-2000 mg.

[0201] In some related embodiments, the active ingredient
in tie immediate-release subcomponent of the ﬁrst compo-
nent and the active ingredient in the immediate-release
subcomponent of the second component both comprise an
ana gesic agent, such as acetaminophen. In some embodi-
ments, the active ingredient in the immediate-release sub-
component of the ﬁrst component and the active ingredient
in tie immediate-release subcomponent of the second com-
ponent comprise different analgesic agents.

[0202] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a p armaceutical composition that comprises a ﬁrst compo-
nent comprising an immediate-release subcomponent,
wherein the immediate-release subcomponent comprises an
active ingredient comprising one or more agents selected
from the group consisting of analgesic agents and a PG
pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or
a PGR inhibitor, wherein the ﬁrst component is formulated
to release its subcomponent immediately after oral admin-
istration; and a second component comprising an immedi-
ate-release subcomponent and an extended-release subcom-
ponent, wherein the second component is formulated to
US 2019/0029980 A1

[0325] (1) Each analgesic agent alone at various doses.
[0326] (2) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of LPS.
[0327] (3) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of carbachol or acetylcholine,
[0328] (4) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.
[0329] (5) Botulinum neurotoxin A alone at various
doses.
[0330] (6) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of LPS.
[0331] (7) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0332] (8) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.
[0333] (9) Each antimuscarinic agent alone at various
doses,
[0334] (10) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of LPS.
[0335] (11) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0336] (12) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA,
[0337] The cells are then analyzed for the release of
PGHZ; PGE; PGEZ; Prostacydin; Thromboxane; lL-lO;
lL-6; TNFa; the COX2 activity; the production of CAMP
and cGMP; the production of lL-lO, lL-6, TNFa, and COX2
mRNA; and surface expression of CD80, CD86, and MHC
class II molecules.

Example 7: Effect of Analgesic Agents, Botulinum
Neurotoxin and Antimuscarinic Agents on Human
Bladder Smooth Muscle Cell Contraction

Experimental Design

[0338] Cultured human bladder smooth muscle cells are
exposed to inflammatory stimuli and non-inﬂammatory
stimuli in the presence of an analgesic agent and/or anti-
muscarinic agent at various concentrations. The stimuli-
induced muscle contraction is measured to evaluate the
inhibitory effect of the analgesic agent and/or antimuscarinic
agent.
[0339] The effectors, analgesic agents, and antimuscarinic
agents are described in Example 2,
[0340] Human bladder smooth muscle cells are subjected
to short term (1-2 hrs) or long term (24-48 hrs) stimulation
with:
[0341] (1) Each analgesic agent alone at various doses.
[0342] (2) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of LPS.
[0343] (3) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0344] (4) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.
[0345] (5) Botulinum neurotoxin A alone at various
doses.
[0346] (6) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of LPS.
[0347] (7) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0348] (8) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA,
[0349] (9) Each antimuscarinic agent alone at various
doses.

30

Jan. 31, 2019

[0350] (10) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of LPS.
[0351] (11) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0352] (12) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.
[0353] Bladder smooth muscle cell contractions are
recorded with a Grass polygraph (Quincy Mass, USA).

Example 8: Effect of Analgesic Agents on Normal
Human Bladder Smooth Muscle Cell Responses to
Inﬂammatory and Non Inﬂammatory Signals

Experimental Design

Culture of Normal Human Bladder Smooth Muscle Cells

[0354] Normal human bladder smooth muscle cells were
isolated by enzymatic digestion from macroscopically nor-
mal pieces of human bladder. Cells were expended in vitro
by culture at 37° C. in a 5% CO2 atmosphere in RPMI 1640
supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 15 mM HEPES,
2 mM L-glutamine, 100 U/ml penicillin, and 100 mg/ml of
streptomycin and passage once a week by treatment with
trypsin to detach cells followed by reseeding in a new
culture ﬂask. The ﬁrst week of culture, the culture medium
was supplemented with 0.5 ng/ml epidermal growth factor,
2 ng/ml ﬁbroblast growth factor, and 5 [Lg/ml insulin.
Treatment of Normal Human Bladder Smooth Muscle Cells
with Analgesics In Vitro

[0355] Bladder smooth muscle cells trypsinized and
seeded in microculture plates at a cell density of 3><lO4 cells
per well in 100 pl were treated with analgesic solutions (50
pl/well) either alone or together carbachol (IO-Molar, 50
pl/well). as an example of non-inﬂammatory stimuli, or
lipopolysaccharide (LPS) of Salmonella typhimurium (1
uyml, 50 pl/well), as an example of non-inﬂammatory
stimuli. When no other effectors were added to the cells, 50
pl of RPMI 1640 without fetal bovine serum were added to
the wells to adjust the ﬁnal volume to 200 pl.

[0356] After 24 hours of culture, 150 pl of culture super-
natants were collected, spun down for 2 min at 8,000 rpm at
4° C. to remove cells and debris, and stored at —70° C. for
analysis of Prostaglandin E2 (PGEZ) responses by ELISA.
Cells were ﬁxed, permeabilized, and blocked for detection
of COX2 using a ﬂuorogenic substrate. In selected experi-
ments, cells were stimulated 12 hours in vitro for analysis of
COX2, PGEZ, and cytokine responses.

Analysis of COX2, PGE2, and Cytokine Responses

[0357] COX2 and PGE2 responses were analyzed as
described in Example 3, Cytokine responses were analyzed
as described in Example 2,

[0358] Results

[0359] Analgesics inhibit COX2 responses of normal
human bladder smooth muscle cells to inﬂammatory and
non-inﬂammatory stimuliiAnalysis of cells and culture
supematants after 24 hours of cultures showed that none of
the analgesics tested alone induced COX2 responses in
normal human bladder smooth muscle cells, However, as
summarized in Table 6, carbachol induced low, but signiﬁ-
cant COX2 responses in normal human bladder smooth
muscle cells. On the other hand, LPS treatment resulted in
higher levels of COX2 responses in normal human bladder
smooth muscle cells. Acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen.
US 2019/0029980 A1

of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis, inhibitors of PGT
activity, inhibitors of PGT expression. inhibitors of PGR
activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression,

[0234] In some embodiments, the analgesic agent is
selected from the group consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen,
naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabumetone and
acetaminophen and wherein at least one of the ﬁrst, second,
third and fourth active ingredients comprises 5-2000 mg of
the analgesic agent,

[0235] In some embodiments, the at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third, and fourth active ingredients comprises: (1)
acetaminophen; and (2) a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a
PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor.

[0236] In some embodiments, the at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises an
agent selected from the group consisting of antimuscarinic
agents, antidiuretic agents and spasmolytics.

[0237] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a method for manufacturing a pharmaceutical composition
for reducing the frequency of urination. The method com-
prises the steps of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst
active ingredient formulated for immediate release and a
second active ingredient formulated for extended release;
coating the core structure with a delayed release coating to
form a coated core structure; coating the coated core struc-
ture with a third active ingredient formulated for immediate
release to form a double-coated core structure, In some
embodiments, wherein at least one of the ﬁrst, second and
third active ingredients comprises an analgesic agent and at
least one of the ﬁrst, second and third active ingredients
comprises a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a
PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor. In some embodiments, the
PG pathway inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting
of inhibitors of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis,
inhibitors of PGT activity, inhibitors of PGT expression,
inhibitors of PGR activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression,

[0238] In some embodiments, the analgesic agent is
selected from the group consisting of aspirin, ibuprofen,
naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabumetone and
acetaminophen and wherein at least one of the ﬁrst, second
and third active ingredients comprises 5-2000 mg of the
analgesic agent.

[0239] In some embodiments, at least one of the ﬁrst,
second and third active ingredients comprises: (1) acet-
aminophen; and (2) a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG
inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor.

[0240] In some embodiments, the at least one of the ﬁrst,
second and third active ingredients comprises an agent
selected from the group consisting antimuscarinic agents,
antidiuretic agents and spasmolytics.

[0241] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a method for manufacturing a pharmaceutical composition
for reducing the frequency of urination. The method com-
prises the steps of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst
pair of analgesic agents formulated for extended-release,
and coating the core structure with a coating layer compris-
ing a second pair of analgesics, wherein the second pair of
analgesics is formulated for immediate release and wherein
either the core structure or the coating layer or both ﬁrr‘ther
comprise a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a
PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitori In some embodiments, the
PG pathway inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting
of inhibitors of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis,

Jan. 3], 2019

inhibitors of PGT activity, inhibitors of PGT expression,
inhibitors of PGR activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression.

[0242] In some embodiments, the core structure is ﬁrst
coated with a delayed—release coating and then coated with
a coating layer comprising a second pair of analgesics,
wherein the second pair of analgesics is formulated for
immediate release.

[0243] In some embodiments, the method comprises the
steps of forming a ﬁrst mixture comprising a ﬁrst pair of
analgesic agents formulated for extended-release, forming a
second mixture comprising a second pair of analgesic agents
formulated for inunediate—release, and combining the ﬁrst
mixture and the second mixture to form a ﬁnal mixture,
wherein either the ﬁrst mixture or the second mixture or both
further comprise a PG pathway inhibitor, such as a PG
inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or a PGR inhibitor.

[0244] In some embodiments, the ﬁrst mixture, the second
mixture and the ﬁnal mixture are mixtures of solid materials.
In some embodiments, the ﬁnal mixture is in powder or
granulate form. In some embodiments, the method further
comprises the step of pressing the ﬁnal mixture into a tablet
form, In some embodiments, the ﬁnal mixture is in a liquid,
gel or emulsion form.

[0245] Examples of paired analgesic agents include, but
are not limited to, acetaminophen and an NSAID, acetyl-
salicylic acid and ibuprofen, acetylsalicylic acid and
naproxen sodium, acetylsalicylic acid and nabumetone, ace-
tylsalicylic acid and acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid and
indomethancin, ibuprofen and naproxen sodium, ibuprofen
and nabumetone, ibuprofen and acetaminophen, ibuprofen
and indomethancin, naproxen sodium and nabumetone,
naproxen sodium and acetaminophen, naproxen sodium and
indomethancin, nabumetone and acetaminophen, nabume-
tone and indomethancin, and acetaminophen and indometh-
ancin. In some embodiments, the ﬁrst pair of analgesic
agents is different from the second pair of analgesic agents.
In other embodiments, the ﬁrst pair of analgesic agents is the
same as the second pair of analgesic agents, In one embodi-
ment, the ﬁrst pair of analgesic agents and the second pair
of analgesic agents are both acetaminophen and ibuprofen.

[0246] For example, the extended-release component may
be formulated into a gel form that solidiﬁes in the stomach.
In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition with
an immediate-release component and an extended-release
component is formulated into a pixie pack of powder that
can quickly melt on the tongue, In some embodiments, the
pharmaceutical composition with an immediate-release
component and an extended-release component is formu-
lated into an orally disintegrating tablet using loose com-
pression tableting. In loose compression, orally disintegrat-
ing formulation is compressed at much lower forces (4-20
kN) than traditional tablets, In some embodiments, the orally
disintegrating formulation contains some form of sugar,
such as mannitol, to improve mouth feel. In some embodi-
ments, the orally disintegrating tablet is produced using
lyophilized orally disintegrating formulation.

[0247] The present invention is further illustrated by the
following example which should not be construed as limit-
ing. The contents of all references, patents, and published
patent applications cited throughout this application are
incorporated herein by reference,
US 2019/0029980 A1

to 100 mg, 1 pg to 30 mg; 1 pg to 10 mg, 1 pg to 3 mg, 1
pg to 1 mg, 1 pg to 300 pg, 1 pg to 100 pg, 1 pg to 30 pg,
1 pg to 10 pg, 1 pg to 3 pg, 3 pg to 100 mg, 3 pg to 100 mg,
3 pgto 30mg; 3 pg to 10mg, 3pgto3mg, 3 pgto 1 mg,
3 pg to 300 pg, 3 pg to 100 pg, 3 pg to 30 pg, 3 pg to 10 pg,
10 pg to 300 mg, 10 pg to 100 mg, 10 pg to 30 mg; 10 pg
to 10 mg, 10 pg to 3 mg, 10 ps to 1 mg, 10 pg to 300 pg, 10
pg to 100 pg, 10 ps to 30 pg, 30 pg to 300 mg, 30 pg to 100
mg, 30 pg to 30 mg; 30 pg to 10 mg, 30 pg to 3 mg, 30 pg
to 1 mg, 30 pg to 300 pg, 30 pg to 100 pg, 100 pg to 300 mg,
100 pg to 100 mg, 100 pg to 30 mg; 100 pg to 10 mg, 100
pg to 3 mg, 100 pg to 1 mg, 100 pg to 300 pg, 300 pg to 300
mg, 300 pg to 100 mg, 300 pg to 30 mg; 300 pg to 10 mg,
300 pg to 3 mg, 300 pg to 1 mg, 1 mg to 300 mg, 1 mg to
100 mg, 1 mg to 30 mg, 1 mg to 3 mg, 3 mg to 300 mg, 3
mg to 100 mg, 3 mg to 30 mg, 3 mg to 10 mg, 10 mg to 300
mg, 10 mg to 100 mg, 10 mg to 30 mg, 30 mg to 300 mg,
30 mg to 100 mg or 100 mg to 300 mg

[0169] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition of the present application further comprises one or
more spasmolytics. Examples of spasmolytics include, but
are not limited to, carisoprodol, benzodiazepines, baclofen,
cyclobenzaprine, metaxalone, methocarbamol, clonidine,
clonidine analog, and dantrolene. In some embodiments, the
spasmolytics is used at a daily dose of 0.1 mg to 1000 mg,
0.1 mg to 300 mg, 0.1 mg to 100 mg, 0.1 mg to 30 mg, 0.1
mg to 10mg, 0.1 mg to 3 mg, 0.1 mg to 1 mg, 0.1 mg to 0.3
mg, 0.3 mg to 1000 mg, 0.3 mg to 300 mg, 0.3 mg to 100
mg, 0.3 mg to 30 mg, 0.3 mg to 10 mg, 0.3 mg to 3 mg, 0.3
mg to 1 mg, 1 mg to 1000mg, 1 mg to 300mg, 1 mg to 100
mg, 1 mg to 30 mg, 1 mg to 10 mg, 1 mg to 3 mg, 3 mg to
1000 mg, 3 mg to 300 mg, 3 mg to 100 mg, 3 mg to 30 mg,
3 mg to 10 mg, 10 mg to 1000 mg, 10 mg to 300 mg,10 mg
to 100 mg, 10 mg to 30 mg, 30 mg to 1000 mg, 30 mg to
300 mg, 30 mg to 100 mg, 100 mg to 1000 mg, 100 mg to
300 mg, or 300 mg to 1000 mg.

[0170] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition of the present application further comprises one or
more PDE 5 inhibitors. Examples of PDE 5 inhibitors
include, but are not limited to, tadalaﬁl, sildenaﬁl and
vardenaﬁl. In some embodiments, the one or more PDE 5
inhibitors comprise tadalaﬁl. In other embodiments, the one
or more PDE 5 inhibitors is tadalaﬁl. In some embodiments,
the PDE 5 inhibitor is used at a daily dose of 0.1 mg to 1000
mg, 0.1 mg to 300 mg, 0.1 mg to 100 mg, 0.1 mg to 30 mg,
0.1 mg to 10 mg, 0.1 mg to 3 mg, 0.1 mg to 1 mg, 0.1 mg
to 0.3 mg, 0.3 mg to 1000 mg, 0.3 mg to 300 mg, 0.3 mg to
100 mg, 013 mg to 30 mg, 0.3 mg to 10 mg, 013 mg to 3 mg,
013 mg to 1 mg, 1 mg to 1000 mg, 1 mg to 300 mg, 1 mg
to 100 mg, 1 mg to 30 mg, 1 mg to 10 mg, 1 mg to 3 mg,
3 mg to 1000 mg, 3 mg to 300 mg, 3 mg to 100 mg, 3 mg
to 30 mg, 3 mg to 10 mg, 10 mg to 1000 mg, 10 mg to 300
mg, 10 mg to 100 mg, 10 mg to 30 mg, 30 mg to 1000 mg,
30 mg to 300 mg, 30 mg to 100 mg, 100 mg to 1000 mg, 100
mg to 300 mg, or 300 mg to 1000 mg.

[0171] In some other embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition of the present application further comprises
zolpidem. The daily dose of zolpidem is in the range of 100
pg to 100 mg, 100 pg to 30 mg, 100 pg to 10 mg, 100 pg to
3 mg, 100 pg to 1 mg, 100 pg to 300 pg, 300 pg to 100 mg,
300 pg to 30 mg, 300 pg to 10 mg, 300 pg to 3 mg, 300 pg
to 1 mg, 1 mg to 100 mg, 1 mg to 30 mg, 1 mg to 10 mg,
1 mg to 3 mg, 10 mg to 100 mg, 10 mg to 30 mg, or 30 mg
to 100 mg.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0172] The antimuscarinic agents, antidiuretics, spasmo-
lytics, zolpidem and/or PDE 5 inhibitors may be formulated,
alone or together with other active ingredient(s) in the
pharmaceutical composition, for immediate-release,
extended-release, delayed release, delayed-extended-release
or combinations thereof.

[0173] In certain embodiments, the pharmaceutical com-
position is formulated for extended release and comprises
(1) an analgesic agent selected from the group consisting of
cetylsalicylic acid, ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen sodium,
nabumetone, acetaminophen, and indomethancin and (2) a
PDE 5 inhibitor, such as tadalaﬁlr

[0174] The pharmaceutical composition may be formu-
lated into a tablet, an orally disintegrating tablet, capsule,
dragee, powder, granulate, liquid, gel or emulsion form. Said
liquid, gel or emulsion may be ingested by the subject in
naked form or contained within a capsule.

[0175] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a single analgesic agent and a single PDE
5 inhibitor. In one embodiment, the single analgesic agent is
aspirin. In another embodiment, the single analgesic agent is
ibuprofen. In another embodiment, the single analgesic
agent is naproxen or naproxen sodium. In another embodi-
ment, the single analgesic agent is indomethacinr In another
embodiment, the single analgesic agent is nabumetone, In
another embodiment, the single analgesic agent is acet-
aminophen. In another embodiment, the single PDE 5
inhibitor is tadalaﬁl. The analgesic agent and PDE 5 inhibi-
tor may be given at doses in the ranges described above.
[0176] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises one or more analgesic agents, individually
or in combination, in an amount between 10-1000 mg,
10-800 mg, 10-600 mg, 10-500 mg, 10-400 mg, 10-300 mg,
10-250 mg, 10-200 mg, 10-150 mg, 10-100 mg 30-1000 mg,
30-800 mg, 30-600 mg, 30-500 mg, 30-400 mg, 30-300 mg,
30—250 mg, 30-200 mg, 30-150 mg, 30—100 mg, 100-1000
mg, 100-800 mg, 100-600 mg, 100-400 mg, 100-250 mg,
300—1000 mg, 300-800 mg, 300—600 mg, 300-400 mg,
400-1000 mg, 400-800 mg, 400-600 mg, 600-1000 mg,
600-800 mg or 800-1000 mg, wherein the composition is
formulated for extended release with a release proﬁle in
which the one or more analgesic agents are released con-
tinuously over a period of 2-12 hours or 5-8 hours.

[0177] In some embodiments, the composition is formu-
lated for extended-release with a release proﬁle in which at
least 90% of the one or more analgesic agents are released
continuously over a period of 2-12 hours or 5-8 hours.
[0178] In some embodiments, the composition is formu-
lated for extended release with a release proﬁle in which the
one or more analgesic agents are released continuously over
a period of5, 6, 7, 8, 10 or 12 hours In some embodiments,
the pharmaceutical composition further comprises an anti-
muscarinic agent, an antidiuretic, a spasmolytic, zolpidem or
a PDE 5 inhibitor.

[0179] In other embodiments, the composition is formu-
lated for extended-release with a release proﬁle in which the
analgesic agent is released at a steady rate over a period of
2-12 hours or 5-8 hours. In other embodiments, the com-
position is formulated for extended release with a release
proﬁle in which the analgesic agent is released at a steady
rate over a period of 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 or 12 hours As used
herein, “a steady rate over a period of time” is deﬁned as a
release proﬁle in which the release rate at any point during
a given period of time is within 30%-300% of the average
US 2019/0029980 A1

pg/kg body weightjday to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day
whether by one or more administrations. In some embodi-
ments, the range of each active agent administered daily in
a single dose or in multiple does is from about 10 pg/kg body
weight/day to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day, 10 pykg
body weight/day to about 30 mg/kg body weight/day, 10
pg/kg body weightjday to about 10 mg/kg body weight/(lay,
10 pg/kg body weightjday to about 3 mg/kg body weight/
day, 10 pg/kg body weight/day to about 1 mg/kg body
weight/day, 10 pg/kg body weight/day to about 300 pg/kg
body weight/day, 10 pg/kg body weight/day to about 100
pg/kg body weight/day, 10 pg/kg body weight/day to about
30 pg/kg body weight/day, 30 pg/kg body Weight/day to
about 100 mg/kg body weighdday, 30 pg/kg body weight/
day to about 30 mg/kg body weighdday, 30 pg/kg body
weight/day to about 10 rug/kg body weight/day, 30 pg/kg
body weight/day to about 3 mg/kg body weight/day, 30
pg/kg body weighdday to about 1 mg/kg body weight/day,
30 pg/kg body weightjday to about 300 pg/kg body weight/
day, 30 pg/kg body weight/day to about 100 pg/kg body
weight/day, 100 pg/kg body weight/day to about 100 mg/kg
body weight/day, 100 pg/kg body weight/day to about 30
mg/kg body weight/day, 100 pg/kg body weight/day to about
10 mg/kg body weight/day, 100 png body weight/day to
about 3 mg/kg body weight/day, 100 pg/kg body weight/day
to about 1 mg/kg body weight/day, 100 pg/kg body weight/
day to about 300 pg/kg body weight/day, 300 pg/kg body
weight/day to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day, 300 pg/kg
body weight/day to about 30 mgkg body weight/day, 300
pg/kg body weight/day to about 10 mg/kg body weight/day,
300 pg/kg body weight/day to about 3 mg/kg body weight/
day, 300 pg/kg body weight/day to about 1 mg/kg body
weight/day, 1 mg/kg body weight/day to about 100 mg/kg
body weightjday, 1 mgfkg body weight/day to about 30
mg/kg body weighﬂday, 1 mg/kg body weight/day to about
10 mg/kg body weight/day, 1 mg/kg body weight/day to
about 3 mg/kg body weight/day, 3 mg/kg body weight/day
to about 100 mg/kg body weight/day. 3 mg/kg body weight/
day to about 30 mg/kg body weight/day, 3 mg/kg body
weight/day to about 10 mg/kg body weight/day, 10 mg/kg
body weighdday to about 100 mg/kg body weighdday, 10
mg/kg body weight/day to about 30 mg/kg body weight/day
or 30 mg/kg body weight/day to about 100 mg/kg body
weight/day.

[0164] The analgesic agent(s) described herein may be
included in an inunediate-release component or an
extended-release component, a delayed—release component,
a delayed-extended-release component or combinations
thereof for daily oral administration at a single dose or
combined dose range of 1 mg to 2000 mg, 1 mg to 1000 mg,
1mg to 300 mg, 1 mg to 100 mg, 1 mg to 30 mg, 1 mg to
10 mg, 1 mg to 3 mg, 3 mg to 2000 mg, 3 mg to 1000 mg,
3 mg to 300 mg, 3 mg to 100 mg, 3 mg to 30 mg, 3 mg to
10 mg, 10mg to 2000 mg, 10 mg to 1000 mg, 10 mg to 300
mg, 10 mg to 100 mg, 10 mg to 30 mg, 30 mg to 2000 mg,
30 mg to 1000 mg, 30 mg to 300 mg, 30 mg to 100 mg, 100
mg to 2000 mg, 100 mg to 1000 mg, 100 mg to 300 mg, 300
mg to 2000 mg, 300 mg to 1000 mg or 1000 mg to 2000 mg,
As expected, the dosage will be dependent on the condition,
size, age, and condition of the patient,

[0165] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a single analgesic agent, In one embodi-
ment, the single analgesic agent is aspirin. In another
embodiment, the single analgesic agent is ibuprofen, In

Jan. 31, 2019

another embodiment, the single analgesic agent is naproxen
or naproxen sodium, In another embodiment, the single
analgesic agent is indomethacin, In another embodiment, the
single analgesic agent is nabumetone, In another embodi-
ment, the single analgesic agent is acetaminophen,

[0166] In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprises a pair of analgesic agents. Examples of
such paired analgesic agents include, but are not limited to,
acetylsalicylic acid and ibuprofen, acetylsalicylic acid and
naproxen sodium, acetylsalicylic acid and nabumetone, ace-
tylsalicylic acid and acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid and
indomethancin, ibuprofen and naproxen sodium, ibuprofen
and nabumetone, ibuprofen and acetaminophen, ibuprofen
and indomethancin, naproxen, naproxen sodium and nabu-
metone, naproxen sodium and acetaminophen, naproxen
sodium and indomethancin, nabumetone and acetamino-
phen, nabumetone and indomethancin, and acetaminophen
and indomethancin, The paired analgesic agents are mixed at
a weight ratio in the range of 0.1:1 to 10:1, 0.2:] to 5:1 or
03:1 to 3:]. In one embodiment, the paired analgesic agents
are mixed at a weight ratio of 1:1,

[0167] In some other embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition of the present application further comprises one
or more antimuscarinic agents, Examples of the antimusca-
rinic agents include, but are not limited to, oxybutynin,
solifenacin. darifenacin, fesoterodine, tolterodine, trospium,
atropine, and tricyclic antidepressants, The daily dose of
antimuscarinic agent is in the range of 1 pg to 300 mg, 1 pg
to 100 mg, 1 pg to 30 mg; 1 pg to 10 mg, 1 pg to 3 mg, 1
pg to 1 mg, 1 pg to 300 pg, 1 pg to 100 pg, 1 pg to 30 pg,
1 pg to 10 pg, 1 pgto 3 pg, 3 pgto 100 mg, 3 pg to 100mg,
3 pg to 30 mg; 3 pg to 10 mg, 3 pg to 3 mg, 3 pg to 1 mg,
3 pg to 300 pg, 3 pg to 100 pg, 3 pg to 30 pg, 3 pg to 10 pg,
10 pg to 300 mg, 10 pg to 100 mg, 10 pg to 30 mg; 10 pg
to 10 mg, 10 pg to 3 mg, 10 pg to 1 mg. 10 pg to 300 pg,
10 pg to 100 pg, 10 pg to 30 pg, 30 pg to 300 mg, 30 pg to
100 mg, 30 pg to 30 mg; 30 pg to 10 mg, 30 pg to 3 mg, 30
pg to 1 mg, 30 pg to 300 pg, 30 pg to 100 pg, 100 pg to 300
mg, 100 pg to 100 mg, 100 pg to 30 mg; 100 pg to 10 mg,
100 pg to 3 mg, 100 pg to 1 mg, 100 pg to 300 pg, 300 pg
to 300 mg, 300 pg to 100 mg, 300 pg to 30 mg; 300 pg to
10 mg. 300 pg to 3 mg, 300 pg to 1 mg, 1 mg to 300 mg,
1 mg to 100 mg, 1 mg to 30 mg, 1 mg to 3 mg, 3 mg to 300
mg, 3 mg to 100 mg, 3 mg to 30 mg, 3 mg to 10 mg, 10 mg
to 300 mg, 10 mg to 100 mg, 10 mg to 30 mg, 30 mg to 300
mg, 30 mg to 100 mg or 100 mg to 300 mg.

[0168] In some other embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition of the present application further comprises one
or more antidiuretics. Examples of the antidiuretics include,
but are not limited to, antidiuretic hormone (ADH), angio-
tensin II, aldosterone, vasopressin, vasopressin analogs
(e.g,, desmopressin argipressin, lypressin, felypressin, orni-
pressin, and terlipressin), Vasopressin receptor agonists,
atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and C-type natriuretic pep-
tide (CNP) receptor (i.er, NPR], NPR2, and NPR3) antago-
nists (e.g,, HS-142-1, isatin, [Asu7,23']b-ANP—(7-28)],
anantin, a cyclic peptide from Streptomyces coerulescens,
and 3612 monoclonal antibody), somatostatin type 2 recep-
tor antagonists (e.g,, somatostatin), pharmaceutically-ac-
ceptable derivatives, and analogs, salts, hydrates, and sol-
vates thereof In some embodiments, the one or more
antidiuretics comprise desmopressin. In other embodiments,
the one or more antidiuretics is desmopressin. The daily
dose of antidiuretic is in the range of 1 pg to 300 mg, 1 pg
US 2019/0029980 A1
23

der or as a liquid suspension. In other embodiments, the
second active ingredient form an active core that is coated
with the ﬁrst active ingredient, In some embodiments, the
second active ingredient in the ﬁrst mixture is formulated to
release the active ingredient over a period of 2—4 hours, 2-6
hours, 2-8 hours or 2-10 hours.

[0226] In some embodiments, the second active ingredient
is kept in a compartment partially or completely separate
from the ﬁrst active ingredient. In other embodiments, the
ﬁrst mixture is formed by keeping the second active ingre-
dient in a compartment partially or completely separated
from the ﬁrst active ingredient.

[0227] The ﬁrst mixture is then coated with a delayed
release coating to form a core structure. In some embodi-
ments, the delayed release coating is an enteric coating. In
some embodiments, the enteric coating comprises a pH-
dependent polymer that maintains its structure integrity at
low pH, such as the pH in the stomach (normally in the range
of 15-35), In some embodiments, the term “low pH” refers
to a pH value of4.0, 3.5, 3,0, 2.5, 2,0, 1.5, 1,0 or lower, In
some embodiments, the enteric coating comprises one or
more pH-dependent polymers and one or more polysaccha-
rides that are resistant to erosion in both the stomach and
intestine, thus allowing the release of the ﬁrst mixture only
in the colon. In some embodiments, the delayed release
coating comprises two or more layers of coating, In some
embodiments, the delayed release coating comprises a
swelling layer and an outer semi-permeable polymer layer
that covers the swelling layer.

[0228] In the next step, the coated core structure is re-
coated with a second mixture that comprises a third active
ingredient formulated for immediate release and a fourth
active ingredient formulated for extended release. In some
embodiments, the second mixture is prepared by mixing the
third active ingredient in liquid or powder form with the
fourth active ingredient, which is fomrulated for extended
release. The fourth active ingredient may be formulated in
an extended release formulation having an active core
comprised of one or more inert particles, each in the form of
a bead, pellet, pill, granular particle, microcapsule, micro-
sphere, microgranule, nanocapsule, or nanosphere coated on
its surfaces with drugs in the form of e,g., a drug-containing
coating or ﬁlm-forming composition using, for example,
ﬂuid bed techniques or other methodologies known to those
of skill in the art, The inert particle can be of various sizes,
so long as it is large enough to remain poorly dissolved,
Alternatively, the active core may be prepared by granulat-
ing and milling and/or by extrusion and spheronization of a
polymer composition containing the drug substance. In
some embodiments, the active core comprises an extended-
release coating or a polymeric matrix effecting diffusion
controlled release, as described in more detail earlier, In
some embodiments, the polymeric matrix is a water soluble
or water-swellable matrix. In some embodiments, the fourth
active ingredient is simply mixed with the third active
ingredient. Either ingredient or both ingredients may be in
the form of bead, pellet. granular particle, pill, microcapsulc,
microsphere, microgranule, nanocapsule or nanosphere as a
powder or as a liquid suspension,

[0229] In other embodiments, the coated core structure is
re-coated ﬁrst with the fourth active ingredient, and then
coated with the third active ingredient, In some embodi-

Jan. 3], 2019

ments, the fourth active ingredient is formulated to release
the active ingredient over a period of 2-4 hours, 2-6 hours,
2-8 hours or 2-10 hours.

[0230] In some embodiments, the fourth active ingredient
is kept in a compartment partially or completely separated
from the third active ingredient. In other embodiments, the
second mixture is formed by keeping the fourth active
ingredient in a compartment partially or completely sepa-
rated from the third active ingredient.

[0231] In other embodiments, the method comprises the
steps of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst active
ingredient formulated for immediate release and a second
active ingredient formulated for extended release, coating
the core structure with a delayed release coating to form a
coated core structure, and mixing the coated core structure
with a third active ingredient formulated for immediate
release and a fourth active ingredient formulated for
extended release. The ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active
ingredients can be the active ingredients described above, In
one embodiment, the ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active
ingredients each comprises an analgesic agent and/or a PG
pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or
a PGR inhibitor. In some embodiments, the PG pathway
inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting of inhibitors
of PG activity, inhibitors of PG synthesis, inhibitors of PGT
activity, inhibitors of PGT expression, inhibitors of PGR
activity, and inhibitors of PGR expression, In some embodi-
ments, the analgesic agent is selected from the group con-
sisting of aspirin, ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen sodium,
indomethacin, nabumetone and acetaminophen. In some
embodiments, the method further comprises the step of
preparing a dosage form with the ﬁnal mixture, In some
embodiments, the dosage form is in a tablet form, In some
embodiments, the dosage form is in an orally disintegrating
form, eig., orally disintegrating tablet form, In some
embodiments, the dosage form is in a beads-in—a-capsule
form. In some embodiments, the dosage form is in a liquid
(e.g., emulsion) form.

[0232] In other embodiments, the method comprises the
steps of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst active
ingredient formulated for immediate release and a second
active ingredient formulated for extended release, coating
the core structure with a delayed release coating to form a
coated core structure, mixing the coated core stmcture with
a third ingredient formulated for immediate release and a
fourth ingredient formulated for extended release,

[0233] Another aspect of the present application relates to
a method for manufacturing a pharmaceutical composition
for reducing the frequency of urination. The method com-
prises the step of forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst
active ingredient formulated for immediate release and a
second active ingredient formulated for extended release;
coating the core structure with a delayed release coating to
form a coated core structure, mixing the coated core struc-
ture with a third active ingredient formulated for immediate
release and a fourth active ingredient formulated for
extended release to form a ﬁnal mixture, and compressing
the ﬁnal mixture into a tablet. In some embodiments, at least
one of the ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active ingredients
comprises an analgesic agent and at least one of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises a PG
pathway inhibitor, such as a PG inhibitor, a PGT inhibitor or
a PGR inhibitor. In some embodiments, the PG pathway
inhibitor is selected from the groups consisting of inhibitors
US 2019/0029980 Al

the secretion of high levels of PGE2. Addition of the
analgesics acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen
suppressed the elfect of LPS on PGE2 secretion, and no
difference was seen between the responses of cells treated
with the 5 or 50 “M dose of analgesic.

TABLE 5

PGE2 secretion by mouse bladder cells alter in
vitm stimulation and treatment With anal esic.

PGE2 levels

Stimulus Analgesic (pg/ml)
None None <20.5

carbachol (mM) None <20.5

LPS (1 [Lg/ml) None 925 2: 55
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Acetaminophen (5 uM) 619 x 32
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Aspirin (5 11M) 588 1 21
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Ibuprofen (5 uM)) 593 2 46
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Naproxen (5 M) 597 2:19
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Acetaminophen (50 irvr) 600 2: 45
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Aspirin (50 M) 571 x 53
LPS (1 [Lg/ml) Ibuprofen (50 M) 568 n 32
LPS (1 ng/ml) Naproxen (50 (M) 588 a: 37

[0303] In summary, these data show that the analgesics
alone at 5 uM or 50 M do not induce COX2 and PGE2

responses in mouse bladder cells. The analgesics at 5 ”M or
50 uM, however, signiﬁcantly inhibit COX2 and PGE2
responses of mouse bladder cells stimulated in vitro with
LPS (1 ug/ml). No signiﬁth elfect of analgesics was
observed on COX2 and PGE2 responses of mouse bladder
cells stimulated with carbachol (1 mM).

Example 4: Eifect of Analgesic Agents, Botulinum
Neurotoxin and Antimuscarinic Agents on Mouse
Bladder Smooth Muscle Cell Contraction

Experimental Design

[0304] Cultured mouse or rat bladder smooth muscle cells
and mouse or rat bladder smooth muscle tissue are exposed
to inﬂammatory stimuli and non-inﬂammatory stimuli in the
presence of analgesic agent and/or antimuscarinic agent at
various concentrations The stimulus-induced muscle con-
traction is measured to evaluate the inhibitory elfect of the
analgesic agent and/or antimuscarinic agent.
[0305] The effectors, analgesic agents, and antimuscarinic
agents are described in Example 2.
[0306] Primary cultures of mouse bladder smooth muscle
cells are subjected to short term (1 -2 hrs) or long term (24-48
hrs) stimulation with:
[0307] (1) Each analgesic agent alone at various doses.
[0308] (2) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of LPS.
[0309] (3) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0310] (4) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA
[0311] (5) Botulinum neurotoxin A alone at various
doses,
[0312] (6) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of LPS.
[0313] (7) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.
[0314] (8) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in
the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0315] (9) Each antimuscarinic agent alone at various
doses.
[0316] (10) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses

in the presence of LPS.
[0317] (11) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.

[0318] (12) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses
in the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPAl

Materials and Methods

[0319] Primary mouse bladder cells are isolated as
described in Example 3. In selected experiments, cultures of
bladder tissue are used. Bladder smooth muscle cell con-
tractions are recorded with a Grass polygraph (Quincy
Mass, USA).

Example 5: Effect of Oral Analgesic Agents and
Antimuscarinic Agents on COX2 and PGE2
Responses of Mouse Bladder Smooth Muscle Cells

Experimental Design

[0320] Normal mice and mice with over active bladder
syndrome are given oral doses of aspirin, naproxen sodium,
ibuprofen, Indocin, nabumetone, Tylenol, Celecoxib, oxy-
butynin, solifenacin, darifenacin, atropine, and combina-
tions thereof Control groups include untreated normal mice
and untreated OAB mice with over active bladder syndrome.
Thirty (30) minutes aﬁer last doses, the bladders are col-
lected and stimulated ex vivo with carbachol or acetylcho-
line. In selected experiments, the bladders are treated with
botulinum neurotoxin A before stimulation with carbachol,
Animals are maintained in metabolic cages and frequency
(and volume) of urination are evaluated Bladder outputs are
determined by monitoring water intake and cage litter
weight. Serum PGHZ, PGE, PGE2, Prostacydin, Thrombox-
ane, lL-6, TNF-ot, CAMP, and cGMP levels are determined
by ELISA. CD80, CD86, and MHC class II expression in
whole blood cells are determined by ﬂow cytometry.

[0321] At the end of the experiment, animals are eutha-
nized, anc ex vivo bladder contractions are recorded with a
Grass polygraph. Portions of bladders are ﬁxed in formalin,
and COX2 responses are analyzed by immunohistochemis-

try,

Exam 1e 6: Effect of Analgesic Agents, Botulinum
Neurotoxin and Antimuscarinic Agents on Human
B adder Smooth Muscle Cell Responses to
Int ammatory and Non-Inﬂammatory Stimuli

Experimental Design

[0322] "his study is designed to characterize how the
optimal ses of analgesic determined in Examples 1-5
affect human bladder smooth muscle cells in cell culture or
tissue cultures and to address whether different classes of
analgesics can synergize to more efﬁciently inhibit COX2
and PGE2 responses.

[0323] "he effectors, analgesic agents, and antimuscarinic
agents are described in Example 2,

[0324] Human bladder smooth muscle cells are subjected
to short term (1-2 hrs) or long term (24-48 hrs) stimulation
with:
US 2019/0029980 A1
25

Example 1: Inhibition of the Urge to Urinate with
Ibuprofen

[0248] Twenty volunteer subjects, both male and female
were enrolled, each of which experienced a premature urge
or desire to urinate, interfering with their ability to sleep for
a suﬂicient period of time to feel adequately rested. Each
subject ingested 400-800 mg of ibuprofen as a single dose
prior to bedtime At least 14 subjects reported that they were
able to rest better because they were not being awakened as
frequently by the urge to urinate.

[0249] Several subjects reported that after several weeks
of nightly use of ibuprofen, the beneﬁt of less frequent urges
to urinate was no longer being realized. However, all of
these subjects further reported the return of the beneﬁt after
several days of abstaining from taking the dosages. More
recent testing has conﬁrmed similar results can be achieved
at much lower dosages without any subsequent diminution
of beneﬁts.

Example 2: Effect of Analgesic Agents, Botulinum
Neurotoxin and Antimuscarinic Agents on
Macrophage Responses to Inﬂammatory and
Non-Inﬂammatory Stimuli

Experimental Design

[0250] This study is designed to determine the dose and in
vitro eﬁicacy of analgesics and antimuscarinic agents in
controlling macrophage response to inﬂammatory and non-
inﬂarnmatory stimuli mediated by COX2 and prostaglandins
(PGE, PGH, etc) It establishes baseline (dose and kinetic)
responses to inﬂammatory and non-inﬂammatory effectors
in bladder cells. Brieﬂy, cultured cells are exposed to anal-
gesic agents and/0r antimuscarinic agents in the absence or
presence of various effectors.

[0251] The effectors include: lipopolysaccharide (LPS),
an inﬂammatory agent, and COX2 inducer as inﬂammatory
stimuli; carbachol or acetylcholine, stimulators of smooth
muscle contraction as non-inﬂannnatory stimuli; botulinum
neurotoxin A, a known inhibitor of acetylcholine release, as
positive control; and arachidonic acid (AA), gamma lino-
lenic acid (DGLA), or eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) as
precursors of prostaglandins, which are produced following
the sequential oxidation of AA, DGLA, or EPA inside the
cell by cyclooxygenases (COXl and COX2) and terminal
prostaglandin synthases.

[0252] The analgesic agents include: Salicylates such as
aspirin; iso—butyl-propanoic-phenolic acid derivative (ibu-
profen) such as Advil, Motrin, Nuprin, and Medipren;
naproxen sodium such as Aleve, Anaprox, Antalgin, Femi-
nax Ultra, Flanax, Inza, Midol Extended Relief, Nalgesin,
Naposin, Naprelan, Naprogesic, Naprosyn, Naprosyn sus-
pension, EC-Naprosyn, Narocin, Proxen, Synﬂex and Xeno-
bid; acetic acid derivative such as indomethacin (Indocin);
1-naphtha1eneacetic acid derivative such as nabumetone or
relafen; N—acetyl-para-aminophenol (APAP) derivative such
as acetaminophen or paracetamol (Tylenol); and Celecoxib.
[0253] The antimuscarinic agents include oxybutynin,
solifenacin, darifenacin, and atropine.

[0254] Macrophages are subjected to short term (1-2 hrs)
or long term (24-48 hrs) stimulation with:

[0255] (1) Each analgesic agent alone at various doses.
[0256] (2) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of LPS.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0257] (3) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.

[0258] (4) Each analgesic agent at various doses in the
presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.

[0259] (5) Botulinum neurotoxinA alone at various doses.
[0260] (6) Botulinum neurotoxin A at Various doses in the
presence of LPS.

[0261] (7) Botulinum neurotoxin A at Various doses in the
presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.

[0262] (8) Botulinum neurotoxin A at various doses in the
presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.

[0263] (9) Each antimuscarinic agent alone at various
doses

[0264] (10) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses in
the presence of LPS.

[0265] (11) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses in
the presence of carbachol or acetylcholine.

[0266] (12) Each antimuscarinic agent at various doses in
the presence of AA, DGLA, or EPA.

[0267] The cells are then analyzed for the release of
PGHZ: PGE; PGEZ; Prostacydin; Thromboxane; IL-16;
IL—6; TNF-(x; the COX2 activity; the production of cAMP
and cGMP; the production of IL-1B, IL-6. TN'F-ot, and
COX2 mRNA; and surface expression of CD80, CD86, and
MHC class II molecules.

Materials and Methods

Macrophage Cells

[0268] Murine RAW264.7 or J774 macrophage cells (ob-
tained from ATCC) were used in this study. Cells were
maintained in a culture medium containing RPMI 1640
supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 15 mM
HEPES, 2 mM L-glutamine, 100 U/ml penicillin, and 100
[Lg/ml of streptomycin. Cells were cultured at 37° C in a 5%
CO2 atmosphere and split (passages) once a week.

In Vitro Treatment of Macrophage Cells with Analgesics
[0269] RAW264.7 macrophage cells were seeded in
96-well plates at a cell density of 1.5><105 cells per well in
100 pl of the culture medium. The cells were treated with (1)
various concentrations of analgesic (acetaminophen, aspirin,
ibuprofen or naproxen), (2) various concentrations of
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), which is an effector of inﬂam-
matory stimuli to macrophage cells, (3) various concentra-
tions of carbachol or acetylcholine, which are etfectors of
non-inﬂammatory stimuli, (4) analgesic and LPS or (5)
analgesic and carbachol or acetylcholine. Brieﬂy, the anal-
gesics were dissolved in FBS-free culture medium (i.e
RPMI 1640 supplemented with 15 mM HEPES, 2 mM
L-glutamine, 100 U/ml penicillin, and 100 [1ng of strep-
tomycin) and diluted to desired concentrations by serial
dilution with the same medium. For cells treated with
analgesic in the absence of LPS, 50 u] of analgesic solution
and 50 ul of FBS-free culture medium were added to each
well. For cells treated with analgesic in the presence of LPS,
50 pl of analgesic solution and 50 pl of LPS (from Salmo-
nella lyphimurium) in FBS-free culture medium were added
to each well. All conditions were tested in duplicates.
[0270] After 24 or 48 hours of culture, 150 ul of culture
supematants were collected, spun down for 2 min at 8,000
rpm at 4° C. to remove cells and debris and stored at —70°
C. for analysis of cytokine responses by ELISA. The cells
were collected and washed by centrifugation (5 min at 1,500
rpm at 4° C.) in 500 u] of Phosphate buffer (PBS). Half of
US 2019/0029980 A1
31

and naproxen could all suppress the effect of carbachol and
LPS on COX2 levels. The suppressive effect of the analge-
sics was seen on LPS-induced responses when these drugs
were tested at either 5 uM or 50 11M.

TABLE 6

 

coxz expression by normal human bladder smooth muscle
cells after in Vino stimulation with inﬂammatory and
none inﬂammatory stimuli and treatment with analgesrc

 

Total COXZ Total COXZ

 

levels“ levels
(Normalized (Normalized

RFUs) RFUS)
Stimulus Analgesic subject 1 subject 2
None None 230 199
Carbachol 10*3 M None (50 pM) 437 462
Carbachol 10*3 M Acetaminophen (50 uM) 298 310
Carbachol 10*3 M Aspirin (50 pM) 312 297
Carbachol103 M Ibuprofen (5o jiM) 309 330
Carbachol 10*3 M Naproxen (50 iiM) 296 354
LPS (10 jig/ml) None 672 633
LPS (10 perm) Acetaminophen (5 uM) 428 457
LPS (10 jig/ml) Aspirin (5 jiM) 472 491
LPS (10 jig/ml) Ibuprofen (5 pM) 417 456
LPS (10 jig/ml) Naproxen (5 M 453 501
LPS (10 perm) Acetaminophen (50 pM) 399 509
LPS (10 perm) Aspirin (50 pM) 413 434
LPS (10 jig/ml) Ibuprofen (5o jiM) 427 456
LPS (10 jig/ml) Naproxen (50 iiM) 409 453

”Data are expressed as mean of duplicates

[0360] Analgesics Inhibit PGEZ Responses of Normal
Human Bladder Smooth Muscle Cells to Inﬂammatory and
Non-Inﬂammatory Stimulii

[0361] Consistent with the induction of COX2 responses
described above, both carbachol and LPS induced produc-
tion of PGE2 by normal human bladder smooth muscle cells,
Acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen were also
found to suppress the LPS-induced PGEZ responses at either
5 uM or 50 11M (Table 7)

TABLE 7

 

PGE2 secretion by normal human bladder smooth muscle cells
after in Vitro stimulation with inﬂammatory and none
inﬂammatory stimuli and treatment with anal esic

 

PGEZ levels” PGEZ levels

(pan-1) (ps’ml)
Stimulus Analgesic Subject 1 Subject 2
None None <20.5 <20.5
Carbachol 10*3 M None 129 104
Carbachol 10*3 M Acetaminophen (50 pM) 75 62
Carbachol 10*3 M Aspirin (50 nM) 89 59
Carbachol103 M Ibuprofen (5o jiM) 84 73
Carbachol 10*3 M Naproxen (50 iiM) 77 66
LPS (10 [Lg/n11) None 1125 998
LPS (10 [tymlj Acetaminophen (5 am 817 542
LPS (10 [Lg/n11) Aspirin (5 1M) 833 598
LPS (10 jig/ml) Ibuprofen (5 uM) 824 527
LPS (10 jig/ml) Naproxen (5 M 859 506
LPS (10 jig/ml) Acemrninophen (50 uM) 803 540
LPS (10 jig/ml) Aspirin (50 pM) 812 534
LPS (10 pg/ml) Ibuprofen (5o jiM) 821 501
LPS (10 jig/ml) Naproxen (5o jiM) 819 523

 

”Data are expressed as mean of duplicates

Jan. 3], 2019

[0362] Analgesics Inhibit Cytokine Responses of Normal
Human Bladder Cells to Inﬂammatory Stimulii

[0363] Analysis of cells and culture supernatants after 24
hours of culture showed that none of the analgesics tested
alone induced lL-6 or TNFOL secretion in normal human
bladder smooth muscle cells. AS shown in Tables 8 and 9, the
doses of carbachol tested induced low, but signiﬁcant TNFo.
and IL—6 responses in normal human bladder smooth muscle
cells. On the other hand, LPS treatment resulted in massive
induction of these proinﬂammatory cytokines. Acetamino-
phen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and naproxen suppress the effect of
carbachol and LPS on TNFo. and lL-6 responses, The
suppressive eﬁect of the analgesics on LPS-induced
responses was seen when these drugs were tested at either 5
uM or 50 11M.

TABLE 8

TN'FOt secretion by normal human bladder smooth muscle
cells alter in vitto stimulation with inﬂammatory and

non— inﬁammatoﬂ stimuli and treatment With analgesic

 

TNFa TNFo.
(Pg/m1) “ (Pg/m1)
Stimuli Analgesrc Subject 1 Subject 2
None None <5 <5
Carbachol 10'3 M None 350 286
Carbachol 1073 M Acetaminophen (50 pM) 138 164
Carbachol 1073 M Aspirin (50 1M) 110 142
Carbachol 10*3 M Ibuprofen (50 pM) 146 121
Carbachol 10*3 M Naproxen (50 pM) 129 137
LPS (10 rig/ml) None 5725 4107
LPS (10 rig/ml) Acetaminophen (5 jiM) 2338 2267
LPS (10 rig/ml) Aspirin (5 pM) 2479 2137
LPS (10 rig/ml) Ibuprofen (5 pM) 2733 2233
LPS (10 jug/m1) Naproxen (5 juM 2591 2215
LPS (10 jug/ml) Acetaminophen (50 pM) 2184 2056
LPS (10 jug/m1) Aspirin (50 1M) 2266 2089
LPS (10 rig/m1) Ibuprofen (50 pM) 2603 1997
LPS (10 [Lg/ml) Naproxen (50 1M) 2427 2192

" Data are expressed as mean of duplicates,

TABLE 9

 

IL-6 secretion by normal human bladder smooth muscle cells
alter in vitro stimulation with inﬂammatory and non»

inﬂammatory stimuli and treatment with analgesic

 

IL—6 iL-é
(Pg/m1) “ (Fe/m1)
Stimulus Analgesic Subject 1 Subject 2
None None <5 <5
Carbachol 10*3 M None 232 278
Carbachol 10*3 M Acetaminophen (50 pM) 119 135
Carbachol 1073 M Aspirin (50 1M) 95 146
Carbachol 1073 M Ibuprofen (50 11M) 107 113
Carbachol 10*3 M Naproxen (50 nM) 114 127
LPS (10 pyml) None 4338 4333
LPS (10 rig/ml) Acetaminophen (5 pM) 2012 2303
LPS (10 rig/ml) Aspirin (5 nM) 2199 2039
LPS (10 rig/ml) Ibuprofen (5 M) 2063 2173
LPS (10 rig/ml) Naproxen (5 W 2077 2229
LPS (10 jug/m1) Acetaminophen (50 pM) 2018 1983
LPS (10 [Lg/ml) Aspirin (50 1M) 1987 2010
LPS (10 jug/m1) Ibuprofen (50 pM) 2021 1991
LPS (10 jug/m1) Naproxen (50 pM) 2102 2028

" Data are expressed as mean of duplicates

[0364] Primary normal human bladder smooth muscle
cells were isolated, cultured and evaluated for their
US 2019/0029980 A1

responses to analgesics in the presence of non-inﬂammatory
(carbachol) and inﬂammatory (LPS) stimuli. The goal of this
study was to determine whether or not normal human
bladder smooth muscle cells recapitulate the observations
previously made with murine bladder cells,
[0365] The above-described experiment will be repeated
with analgesic agents and/or antimuscarinic agents in
delayed-release, or extended-release formulation or
delayed-and-extended-release formulations.
[0366] The above description is for the purpose of teach-
ing a person of ordinary skill in the art how to practice the
present invention, and it is not intended to detail all those
obvious modiﬁcations and variations of it which will
become apparent to the skilled worker upon reading the
description It is intended, however, that all such obvious
modiﬁcations and variations be included within the scope of
the present invention, which is deﬁned by the following
claims, The claims are intended to cover the claimed com-
ponents and steps in any sequence which is eifective to meet
the objectives there intended, unless the context speciﬁcally
indicates the contrary.
1.-13. (canceled)
14, A method for manufacturing a pharmaceutical com-
position for reducing the frequency of urination, comprising:
forming a core structure comprising a ﬁrst active ingre-
dient formulated for immediate release and a second
active ingredient formulated for extended release;

coating the core structure with a delayed release coating
to form a coated core structure;

mixing the coated core structure with a third active

ingredient formulated for immediate release and a
fourth active ingredient formulated for extended
release to form a ﬁnal mixture; and

preparing a dosage form with the ﬁnal mixture,

wherein at least one of the ﬁrst, second, third and fourth

active ingredients comprises a prostaglandin pathway
inhibitor.

15, The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the
ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises
an analgesic agent,

16, The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the
ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises
(1) prostaglandin pathway inhibitor and (2) an analgesic
agent selected from the group consisting of aspirin, ibupro-
fen, naproxen, naproxen sodium, indomethacin, nabume-
tone, and acetaminophen.

17. The method of claim 15, wherein the prostaglandin
pathway inhibitor is an inhibitor of prostaglandin activity
and wherein the analgesic agent is acetaminophen.

Jan. 3], 2019

18, The method of claim 15, wherein the prostaglandin
pathway inhibitor is an inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis
and wherein the analgesic agent is acetaminophen,

19, The method of claim 15, wherein the prostaglandin
pathway inhibitor is an inhibitor of prostaglandin transporter
activity or prostaglandin transporter expression and wherein
the analgesic agent is acetaminophen,

20, The method of claim 15, wherein the prostaglandin
pathway inhibitor is an inhibitor of prostaglandin receptor
activity or prostaglandin receptor expression and wherein
the analgesic agent is acetaminophen,

21, The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the
ﬁrst, second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises
an agent selected from the group consisting antimuscarinic
agents, antidiuretic agents and spasmolytics,

22, A pharmaceutical composition produced by the
method of claim 14,

21-48. (canceled)

49, A pharmaceutical composition, comprising:

an immediate-release component comprising acetamino-

phen and an NSAlD, each in an amount of 5-2000 mg;
and
an extended-re ease component comprising acetamino-
phen and an NSAlD, each in an amount of 5-2000 mg,

wherein the immediate-release component, or the
extended-release component, or both, further comprise
a prostaglanc‘n pathway inhibitor

50, The pharmaceutical composition of claim 49, wherein
the extended-release component is further coated with a
delayed-release coating.

51, The methoc of claim 14, wherein the delayed release
coating is an enteric coating,

52. The methoc of claim 51, wherein the enteric coating
comprises a pH-dependent polymer,

53, The method of claim 14, wherein the delayed release
coating comprises a swelling layer covered by an outer
semi-permeable polymer layer.

54, The methoc of claim 14, wherein the second active
ingredient, or the fourth active ingredient or both comprise
an active core comprising an extended-release coating or a
polymeric matrix effecting diﬁ‘usion controlled release,

55, The metho of claim 14, wherein at least one of the
ﬁrst, second, thirc and fourth active ingredients comprises
acetaminophen in an amount of 5-2000 mg.

56, The methoc of claim 14, wherein each of the ﬁrst,
second, third and fourth active ingredients comprises acet-
aminophen in an amount of 5-2000 mg,

 

*a=a=**
US 2019/0029980 Al

the cells were then snapped frozen in liquid nitrogen and
stored at —70° C. The remaining cells were stained with
ﬂuorescent monoclonal antibodies and analyzed by ﬂow

cytometry,

Flow Cytometry Analysis of Co—Stimulatory Molecule
Expression

[0271] For ﬂow cytometry analysis, macrophages were
diluted in 100 pl of FACS buﬁ'er (phosphate buffered saline
(PBS) with 2% bovine serum albumin (BSA) and 0,01%
NaNS) and stained 30 min at 4° C, by addition of FITC-
conjugated anti-CD40, PE-conjugated anti-CD80, PE-con-
jugated anti-CD86 antibody, anti MHC class II (I-Ad) PE
(BD Bioscience). Cells were then washed by centrifugation
(5 min at 1,500 rpm at 4° C.) in 300111 of FACS buﬂer. After
a second wash, cells were re-suspended in 200 pl of FACS
buﬂer and the percentage of cells expressing a given marker
(single positive), or a combination of markers (double
positive) were analyzed with the aid of an Accuri C6 ﬂow
cytometer (BD Biosciences).

Analysis of Cytokine Responses by ELISA

[0272] Culture supematants were subjected to cytokine-
speciﬁc ELISA to determine IL-IB, IL-6, and TN'F-ot
responses in cultures of macrophages treated with analgesic,
LPS alone or a combination of LPS and analgesic. The
assays were performed on Nunc MaxiSorp Immunoplates
(Nunc) coated overnight with 100 pl of anti-mouse IL-6,
TNF-ot mAbs (BD Biosciences) or IL-16 mAb (R&D Sys-
tems) in 0.1 M sodium bicarbonate buﬁer (pH 95). After
two washes with PBS (200 11.1 per well), 200 [.11 of PBS 3%
BSA were added in each well (blocking) and the plates
incubated for 2 hours at room temperature Plates were
washed again two times by addition of 200 pl per well, 100
111 of cytokine standards and serial dilutions of culture
supematants were added in duplicate, and the plates were
incubated overnight at 4° C, Finally, the plates were washed
twice and incubated with 100 [.11 of secondary biotinylated
anti-mouse IL-6, TNFu mAbs (BD Biosciences), or IL-IB
(R&D Systems) followed by peroxidase-labeled goat anti-
biotin mAb (Vector Laboratories). The colorimetric reaction
was developed by the addition of 2,2'-azino-bis (3)-ethy1-
benzylthiazoline-G-sulfonic acid (ABTS) substrate and
H707 (Sigma) and the absorbance measured at 415 nm with
a Victor® V multilabel plate reader (PerkinElmer)
Determination of COX2 Activity and the Production of
cAMP and cGMP

[0273] The COX2 activity in the cultured macrophages is
determined by sequential competitive ELISA (R&D Sys-
tems), The production of cAMP and cGMP is determined by
the cAMP assay and cGMP assay, These assays are per-
formed routinely in the art

Jan. 3], 2019

26

[0274] Table 1 summarizes the experiments performed
with Raw 264 macrophage cell line and main ﬁndings in
terms of the elfects of analgesics on cell surface expression
of costimulatory molecules CD40 and CD80, Expression of
these molecules is stimulated by COX2 and inﬂammatory
signals and, thus, was evaluated to determine functional
consequences of inhibition of COX2,

[0275] As shown in Table 2, acetaminophen, aspirin, ibu-
profen, and naproxen inhibit basal expression of co-stimu-
latory molecules CD40 and CD80 by macrophages at all the
tested doses (i.e., 5x10S nM, 5x104 nM, 5x103 nM, 5x102
nM, 50 nM, and 5 nM), except for the highest dose (i.ei,
5><106 nM), which appears to enhance, rather than inhibit,
expression of the co-stimulatory molecules. As shown in
FIGS, 1A and 1B, such inhibitory effect on CD40 and CD50
expression was observed at analgesic doses as low as 005
nM (i.e,, 0.00005 This ﬁnding supports the notion that a
controlled release of small doses of analgesic may be
preferable to acute delivery of large doses, The experiment
also revealed that acetaminophen, aspirin, ibuprofen, and
naproxen have a similar inhibitory eifect on LPS induced
expression of CD40 and CD80.

TABLE 1

Surnri a_ry of experiments

LPS
Cone Salmonella Aoemmin Aspie Ibuproe Naproxe
trol typhlmurium ophen nn fen en

TESTS

1 X

x Dose
responses
(0, 5, 50,
1000) nymL
3 x Dose responses
(0, 5, 50. 500, 5 x 103, 5 x 10“,
5 x 105, 5 x 106) nM
4 x x (5 ng/mL) Dose responses
x (50 ngmL (0, 5 ,50, 500, 5 x 103, 5 x104,
x (1000 5 x 105, 5 x105)nM
ng/mL)

ANALYV

s15

a Characterization of activation/stimulatory slams:

Flow cytometry analysis of CD40, CD80,
CD86, and MHC e1ass 11
b Mediators ofinﬁnmmatory responses;
ELISA analysis of IL—1p, IL-6, TNF-u.

TABLE 2

Summary of main ﬁndings

 

Negative LPS Dose analgesic (11M)
Eireetois % Positive Control 5 ng/ml 5 x 105 5 x 105 5 x 104 5 x 103 500 50 5
CD40’CD80‘ 20.5 77.8
Acetaminophen CD40‘CD80‘ 63 18 12 9.8 8.3 9.5 7.5
Aspirin CD40+CD80+ 44 11 10.3 8.3 8 10.5 7.5
