US 2019/0030032 A1

and mixing. However, when cooled to room temperature,
two clear liquid phases may form. Sometimes, the two clear
layers may not be easy to detect, thus requiring strong light
and a thorough inspection of the formulation to discern the
boundary between the two phases. In a number of cases,
formulations may appear clear and uniform on initial cool-
ing to room temperature, but when left quiescent at room
temperature for a period of several days or greater, the
formulations may separate into two phases. For formulations
that are at the border of phase separation, the formulation
may turn cloudy and sometimes slowly separate into two
phases.

[0065] A variety of additives can optionally be included in
the inventive formulations to modify the properties of the
formulations as desired. The additives can be present in any
amount that is sufﬁcient to impart the desired properties to
the formulations. The amount of additive used will in
general be a function of the nature of the additive and the
effect to be achieved, and can be easily determined by one
of skill in the art.

[0066] When present, additive(s) are typically present in
the formulations in an amount in the range from about 0.1
percent to about 20 percent by weight, relative to the total
weight of the formulation, and more typically, is present in
the composition in an amount in the range from about 1, 2,
or 5 percent to about 10 percent by weight, relative to the
total weight of the formulation Certain additives, such as
buﬁers, may be present only in small amounts in the relative
to the total weight of the formulation.

[0067] Another additive for use with the present compo-
sitions are non-biodegradable polymers. Non-limiting
examples of non-erodible polymers which can be used as
additives include: polyacrylates, ethylene-vinyl acetate
polymers, cellulose and cellulose derivatives, acyl substi-
tuted cellulose acetates and derivatives thereof, non-erodible
polyurethanes, polystyrenes, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl
ﬂuoride, poly(vinyl imidazole), chlorosulphonated polyole-
ﬁns, and polyethylene oxide.

[0068] Preferred non-biodegradable polymers include
polyethylene, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, ethylene vinylacetate,
polyethylene glycol, cellulose acetate butyrate (“CAB”) and
cellulose acetate propionate (“CAP").

[0069] A further class of additives which can be used in
the inventive formulations are natural and synthetic oils and
fats. Oils derived from animals or from plant seeds of nuts
typically include glycerides of the fatty acids, chieﬂy oleic,
palmitic, stearic, and linolenic. As a rule the more hydrogen
the molecule contains, the thicker the oil becomes.

[007 0] Non-limiting examples of suitable natural and syn-
thetic oils include vegetable oil, peanut oil, medium chain
triglycerides, soybean oil, almond oil, olive oil, sesame oil,
peanut oil, fennel oil, camellia oil, corn oil, castor oil, cotton
seed oil, and soybean oil, either crude or reﬁned, and
medium chain fatty acid triglycerides.

[0071] Fats are typically glyceryl esters of higher fatty
acids such as stearic and palmitic. Such esters and their
mixtures are solids at room temperatures and exhibit crys-
talline structure. Lard and tallow are examples. In general
oils and fats increase the hydrophobicity of the formulation,
slowing degradation and water uptake.

[0072] Another class of additives which can be used in the
inventive formulations comprise carbohydrates and carbo-
hydrate derivatives. Non-limiting examples of these com-
pounds include monosaccarides (simple sugars such as

Jan. 3], 2019

fructose and its isomer glucose (dextrose); disaccharides
such as sucrose, maltose, cellobiose, and lactose; and poly-
saccarides.

[0073] Other additives, such as preservatives, stabilizers,
anti-oxidants, coloring agents, isotonic agents, hurnectants,
sequesterants, vitamins and vitamin precursors, surfactants
and the like, may be added as needed. As preferred examples
of preservatives, paraben derivatives are given with methyl
paraben and propyl paraben given as most preferred preser-
vatives. As preferred examples of anti-oxidants, butyl
hydroxyanisole, butyl hydroxytoluene, propyl gallate, vita-
min E acetate, and puriﬁed hydroquinone are given with
vitamin E acetate and butyl hydroxytoluene given as most
preferred anti-oxidants. Given as preferred examples of
humectant is sorbitol. Given as preferred examples of
sequesterant is citric acid.

[0074] Inventive formulations may be made according to
a number of methods. In certain embodiments, ﬁrst combine
room temperature solvent(s), room temperature linear poly-
mer and HVLCM heated to 80° C. Next, mix at (SO-80° C.
for a period of several hours to overnight (8-16 hours) until
the formulation is well-mixed. In other embodiments, dis-
solve the linear polymer in all of the solvent(s). Add hot
HVLCM (heated at up to 80° C). Then, mix at temperature
of room temperature to 80° C. for 1 hour to overnight (8-16
hours) until the formulation is well-mixed. In yet other
embodiments, dissolve the linear polymer in some of the
solvent(s). Mix the remainder of the solvent(s) with the
HVLCM. Add hot HVLCM/solvent mixture (heated at up to
80° C.) to the linear polymer/solvent(s) mixture. Then, mix
at temperatures that may range from room temperature to
80° C. for 1 hour to overnight (8-16 hours), until the
formulation is well-mixed.

[0075] Inventive formulations are preferably prepared at
temperatures above room temperature. Once mixed, the
formulations may be cooled back to room temperature and
initially observed for cloudiness (indication of incipient
phase separation), the presence of two liquid layers (usually
of low to moderate viscosity) or the presence of a viscous
layer underneath a less viscous layer. The formulations may
then be leﬁ at room temperature for a signiﬁcant period
(usually one week or greater) and observed again for cloudi-
ness, separation into two layers of moderate viscosity or the
presence of a viscous layer.

[0076] Inventive formulations may be administered to
subjects using conventional routes of administration, such as
injection. Effective amounts of biologically active sub-
stances may be incorporated into the inventive formulations
so as to achieve a desired pharmacological effect.

[0077] While there has been described and pointed out
features and advantages of the invention, as applied to
present embodiments, those skilled in the medical art will
appreciate that various modiﬁcations, changes, additions,
and omissions in the method described in the speciﬁcation
can be made without departing from the spirit of the inven-
tion.

[0078] The present invention is not to be limited in terms
of the particular embodiments described in this application,
which are intended as single illustrations of individual
aspects of the invention. Many modiﬁcations and variations
of this invention can be made without departing from its
spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in the
art. Functionally equivalent methods witltin the scope of the
invention, in addition to those enumerated herein, will be
US 2019/0030032 A1

N-methylpyrrolidone in the formulation, based on the total
weight of the hypothetical fonnulation that would contain
the N-methylpyrrolidone.

[0056] Thus, in an embodiment, a formulation having a
solvent capacity of about 20% would have sufﬁcient
amounts of one or more solvents to dissolve the HVLCM
and linear polymer to the same extent as if about 20% by
weight of NMP were added to the formulation instead of the
one or more solvents If NMP were present as the one or
more solvents in this embodiment, it would be present in an
amount of about 20% by weight, based on the total weight
of the formulation. If the one or more solvents were poorer
solvents for the HVLCM and linear polymer, then the one or
more solvents would be present in an amount greater than
about 20% by weight, based on the total weight of the
formulation. This is illustrated further in Examples 10 and
11.

[0057] In certain embodiments, when R (the ratio of
lactide repeat units to total repeat units in the linear polymer)
is between about 0.55 to 0.85, the solvent capacity of the one
or more solvents is greater than or equal to about 35%, more
preferably greater than or equal to about 25%; and still more
preferably greater than or equal to about 20%. Likewise, in
cemin embodiments, when R ranges from greater than 0.85
to about 0.95, the solvent capacity of the one or more
solvents is greater than or equal to about 25%, more pref-
erably greater than or equal to about 15%, and still more
preferably greater than or equal to about 10%. Decrease in
the lower boundary of solvent capacities represents a physi-
cal narrowing of the range of claimed formulations. This is
because the number of formulations that exhibit satisfactory
solubility behavior over the full range of recited solvent
capacities decreases as the lower boundary of solvent capac-
ity decreases.

[0058] “Subject” is used interchangeably with “indi-
vidual” and means any human or animal with which it is
desired to practice the present invention. The term “subject”
does not denote a particular age, and the present systems are
thus suited for use with subjects of any age, such as infant,
adolescent, adult and senior aged subjects In certain embodi-
ments, a subject may comprise a patient

[0059] “Weight average molecular weight” or “MW”
means the weighted average molecular weight of polymers
of interest. It can be expressed at the ﬁrst moment of a plot
of the weight of polymer in each molecular weight range
against molecular weight. In certain embodiments, weight-
average molecular weight, Number-average molecular
weight (Mn), and the molecular weight distribution
(MWD:Mw/Mn) may be measured by gel permeation chro-
matography (GPC). GPC is a column fractionation method
wherein polymer molecules in solutions are separated based
on their sizes. The separated polymer molecules are
observed by a detector to generate the GPC chromatogram,
which is a plot of elution volume or time (related to
molecular size) versus abundance. The GPC chromatogram
may be integrated to determine Mw, Mn, and MWD.

[0060] GPC samples of polymer(s) of interest, approxi-
mately 50 mg in 10 mL solvent, are ﬁltered through a 0.2 pm
Teﬂon ﬁlter before injection into the instrument. Injections
of 50-200 [LL are made to generate chromatograms. Chro-
matograms may be generated using Various systems. In an
embodiment, a system comprises an Agilent LC 1100 using
Chemstation software. In another embodiment, a system
comprises a Waters 510 pump, a Shimadzu CTO-lOA col-

Jan. 31, 2019

um oven, and a Waters 410 differential refractometer. Data
may be recorded directly to a PC via a Polymer [abs data
capture unit using Caliber® software. A calibration curve
may be generated using polystyrene standards. Mw, Mn, and
MWD relative to polystyrene are calculated. Preferred sol-
vents for use in GPC comprise: chloroform, dichlormethane
(methylene chloride), and tetrahydrofuran (THF). Preferred
different column sets comprise: (1) two Polymer Labs
Mixed C columns in series, (2) two Polymer Labs Mixed D
columns in series, or (3) two Polymer Labs Mesopore
columns in series. Preferred polystyrene calibrants com-
prise: Polymer Labs Easical PSl kit, Polymer Labs Easical
PS2 kit, Polymer Labs S-L-lO kit.

[0061] In embodiments, the weight average molecular
weight of polymers useful in the practice of the present
invention is less than or equal to about 15,000 Daltons,
additionally more preferably less than or equal to about
12,500 Daltons, and yet more preferably less than or equal
to about 10,000 Daltons.

Formulations

[0062] As noted above, an important consideration in
development of formulations according to the invention is
the miscibility or solubility of the polymer in the formula-
tion with the HVLCM. In situations where the polymer is
not miscible or soluble in the formulation with the HVLCM,
phase separation of the polymer and the HVLCM in the
formulation may occur. Once this occurs, it may be very
difﬁcult to remix the polymer and the HVLCM, especially at
the point of use. Should improper remixing occur, undesir-
ably wide variations in release performance might result.
Accordingly, formulations that have high miscibility or
solubility of the polymer in the formulation with the
HVLCM are desirable.

[0063] The inventive formulations possess this high mis-
cibility or solubility of the polymer in the formulation with
the HVLCM. Other points useful to consider in terms of
formulation strategy may include the following. Minimizing
total solvent content of the formulations is generally bio-
logically desirable, for instance in an embodiment having a
solvent content ranging from about one weight percent up to
about 35 wt % solvent, preferably ranging from about one
weight percent up to about 30 wt %, and yet more preferably
ranging from about one weight percent up to about 25 wt %,
based on the total weight of the formulation. In contrast,
increasing solvent content can move a HVLCM/linear poly-
mer/solvent composition from phase separation to single
phase behavior. The one or more solvents should be bio-
compatible, which may eliminate some solvents from use in
the invention In an embodiment, the one or more solvents
should be good solvents for both the polymer and HVLCM.
In an alternate embodiment, the formulation may comprise
the HVLCM, the linear polymer, one or more good solvents
for the linear polymer and one or more good solvents for the
HVLCM, with the resultant formulation being a single
phase.

[0064] Solubility and phase separation of various
HVLVM/linear polymer/solvent formulation may be inves-
tigated by Visual techniques well known to those skilled in
the art. For formulations with signiﬁcant instability or ten-
dency to phase-separate, the linear polymer may absorb
solvent but remain as a separated, Very viscous layer or
phase in the formulation. Other formulations might be
rendered into a uniform clear solution by sufﬁcient heating
US 2019/0030032 A1

peptide, polysaccharide, glycoprotein, glycolipid, nucleic
acid, or combination thereof, which elicits an immunogenic
response in an animal, for example, a mammal, bird, or ﬁsh.
As deﬁned herein, the immunogenic response can be
humoral or cell-mediated, In the event the material to which
the immunogenic response is to be directed is poorly anti-
genic, it may be conjugated to a carrier such as albumin or
to a hapten, using standard covalent binding techniques, for
example, with one of the several commercially available
reagent kits

[0037] Examples of preferred antigens include viral pro-
teins such as inﬂuenza proteins, human immunodeﬁciency
vints (HIV) proteins, and hepatitis A, B, or C proteins, and
bacterial proteins, lipopolysaccharides such as gram nega-
tive bacterial cell walls and Neisseria gonorrhea proteins,
and parvovirus.

[0038] Non-limiting examples of pharmacological mate-
rials include anti-infectives such as nitrofurazone, sodium
propionate, antibiotics, including penicillin, tetracycline,
oxytetracycline, chlorotetracycline, bacitracin, nystatin,
streptomycin, neomycin, polymyxin, gramicidin, chloram-
phenicol, erythromycin, and azithromycin; sulfonamides,
including sulfacetamide, sulfamethizole, sulfamethazine,
sulfadiazine, sulfamerazine, and sulfisoxazole, and anti-
virals including idoxuridine; antiallergenics such as antazo-
line, metiapyritene, chlorpheniramine, pyrilamine prophen-
pyridamine, hydrocortisone, cortisone, hydrocortisone
acetate, cexamethasone, dexamethasone 21 -phosphate, ﬂuo-
cinolone, triamcinolone, medrysone, prednisolone, predni-
solone 21-sodium succinate, and prednisolone acetate;
desensitizing agents such as ragweed pollen antigens, hay
fever po len antigens, dust antigen and milk antigen; vac-
cines such as smallpox, yellow fever, distemper, hog chol-
era, chic (en pox, antivenom, scarlet fever, dyptheria toxoid,
tetanus toxoid, pigeon pox, whooping cough, inﬂuenzae
rabies, mumps, measles, poliomyelitic, and Newcastle dis-
ease; decongestants such as phenylephrine, naphazoline, and
tetrahydrazoline, miotics and anticholinesterases such as
pilocarpine, esperine salicylate, carbachol, diisopropyl ﬂuo-
rophosp iate, phospholine iodide, and demecarium bromide;
parasympatholytics such as atropine sulfate, cyclopentolate,
homatroaine, scopolamine, tropicamide, eucatropine, and
hydroxyamphetamine; sympathomimetics such as epineph-
rine; secatives and hypnotics such as pentobarbital sodium,
phenobarbital, secobarbital sodium, codeine, (a-bromois-
ovaleryl) urea, carbromal; psychic energizers such as 3-(2-
aminopropyl) indole acetate and 3-(2-aminobutyl) indole
acetate; tranquilizers such as reserpine, chlorpromayline,
and thiopropazate; androgenic steroids such as methyl-
testosterone and ﬂuorymesterone; estrogens such as estrone,
l7-,beta,-estradiol, ethinyl estradiol, and diethyl stilbestrol;
progestational agents such as progesterone, megestrol,
melengestrol, clilormadinone, ethisterone, norethynodrel,
19-norprogesterone, norethindrone, medroxyprogesterone
and 17-.beta.-hydroxy-progesterone', humoral agents such as
the prostaglandins, for example PGEsubJ, PGE.sub.2 and
PGF.sub.2; antipyretics such as aspirin, sodium salicylate,
and salicylamide; antispasmodics such as atropine, methan-
theline, papaverine, and methscopolamine bromide; antima-
larials such as the 4-aminoquinolines, 8-aminoquinolines,
chloroquine, and pyrimethamine, antihistamines such as
diphenhydramine, dimenhydrinate, tripelennamine, per-
phenazine, and chlorphenazine; cardioactive agents such as
dibenzhydroﬂume thiazide, ﬂumethiazide, chlorothiazide,

 

Jan. 31, 2019

and aminotrate; antipsychotics including typical and atypi-
cal antipsychotics, wherein the atypical antipsychotics com-
prise risperidone, paliperidone, or olanzapine; nutritional
agents such as vitamins, natural and synthetic bioactive
peptides and proteins, including growth factors. cell adhe-
sion factors, cytokines, and biological response modiﬁers;
together with pharmaceutically acceptable salts and poly-
morphs of the above.

[0039] The biologically active substance is included in the
composition in an amount suﬂicient to deliver to the host
animal or plant an eifective amount to achieve a desired
effect. The amount of biologically active substance incor-
porated into the composition depends upon the desired
release proﬁle, the concentration of biologically active sub-
stance required for a biological eﬂ‘ect, and the desired period
of release of the biologically active substance,

[0040] The concentration of biologically active substance
in the composition will also depend on absorption, inacti-
vation, and excretion rates of the biologically active sub-
stance as well as other factors known to those of skill in the
art. It is to be noted that dosage values will also vary with
the severity of the condition to be alleviated. It is to be
further understood that for any particular subject, speciﬁc
dosage regimens should be adjusted over time according to
the individual need and the professional judgment of the
person administering or supervising the administration of
the inventive formulations, and that the concentration ranges
set forth herein are exemplary only and are not intended to
limit the scope or practice of the claimed invention. The
formulations may be administered in one dosage, or may be
divided into a number of smaller doses to be administered at
varying intervals of time.

[0041] The biologically active substance is typically pres-
ent in the formulations in the range from about 0.5 percent
to about 30 percent by weight relative to the total weight of
the formulations, and more typically, between approxi-
mately 1 percent to about 20 percent by weight, and more,
Another preferred range is from about 2 percent to about 10
percent by weight. For very active biologically active sub-
stances, such as growth factors, preferred ranges are less
than 1% by weight, and less than 0.0001%.

[0042] “Formulation” means a pharmaceutical composi-
tion useful in the practice of this invention.

[0043] “Linear” means a polymer in which the molecules
form long chains substantially without branches or cross-
linked structures.

[0044] “Non-polymeric, non-water soluble high viscosity
liquid carrier material having a viscosity of at least 5,000 cP
at 37° C. that does not crystallize neat under ambient or
physiological conditions” means a high viscosity liquid
carrier material (“HVLCM”) that is non-polymeric, non-
water soluble, and has a viscosity of at least 5,000 cl);
preferably at least 10,000, 15,000; 20,000; 25,000 or even
50,000 cP; at 37° C. that does not crystallize neat under
ambient or physiological conditions. The term non-water
soluble refers to a material that is soluble in water to a degree
of less than one percent by weight under ambient conditions,
[0045] In a preferred embodiment, the HVLCM signiﬁ-
cantly decreases in viscosity when mixed with a solvent to
form a low viscosity liquid carrier material (“LVLCM”) that
can be mixed with a substrate for controlled delivery. The
LVLCM/substrate composition is typically easier to place in
the body than a HVLCM/substrate composition, because it
ﬂows more easily into and out of syringes or other implan-
US 2019/0030032 A1

tation means, and can easily be formulated as an emulsion.
The LVLCM can have any desired viscosity. It has been
found that a viscosity range for the LVLCM of less than
approximately 2000 cP, and more particularly less than 1000
cP, is typically useful for in vivo applications

[0046] In a preferred embodiment, sucrose acetate isobu-
tyrate (“SAIB"), a sucrose molecule nominally esteriﬁed
preferably with two acetic acid and six isobutyric acid
moieties, is used as the HVLCM.

[0047] SAIB is orally non-toxic and is currently used as to
stabilize emulsions in the food industry. It is a very viscous
liquid and has an unusual property that there is a dramatic
change in viscosity with small additions of heat or with the
addition of solvents. It is soluble in a large number of
biocompatible solvents. When in solution or in an emulsion,
SAIB can be applied via injection or an aerosol spray, SAIB
is compatible with cellulose esters and other polymers that
can aﬁect the rate of delivery of the substance

[0048] In other embodiments, the HVLCM can be stearate
esters such as those of propylene glycol, glyceryl, diethyl-
aminoethyl, and glycol, stearate amides and other long-chain
fatty acid amides, such as N,N'-ethylene distearamide, stear-
amide MBA and DEA, ethylene bistearamide, cocoamine
oxide, long-chain fatty alcohols, such as cetyl alcohol and
stearyl alcohol, long-chain esters such as myristyl myristate,
beheny emcate, and glyceryl phosphates. In a particular
embodiment, the HVLCM is acetylated sucrose distearate
(Crodesta A-lO). Additional materials suitable for use as the
HVLCM are disclosed in US Patent Application Publication
US 2004/0101557 by Gibson et a1.

[0049] The amount of HVLCM in a formulation will
depend on the desired properties of a formulation and the
solvent capacity of the chosen solvent. If the chosen solvent
has poor solvent capacity performance, then the actual
amount of solvent may be large, with a corresponding
reduction in the amount of HVLCM in the formulation. The
HVLCM is typically present in controlled delivery compo-
sitions in an amount in the range from about 99.5 percent to
about 10 percent by weight, more typically, between 95 and
25 percent, and most typically, between 85 and 45, relative
to the total weight of the composition.

[0050] “Polymer” means a naturally occurring or synthetic
compound made up of a linked series of repeat units.
Polymer(s) include, but are not limited to, thermoplastic
polymers and thermoset polymers, Polymer(s) may com-
prise linear polymers and/or branched polymers. Polymers
may be synthesized from a single species of monomers, or
may be copolymers that may be synthesized from more than
one species of monomers. In embodiments, polymers
according to the invention comprise polymers that comprise
lactide repeat units. Polymers according to the invention
may also comprise repeat units of other suitable materials,
including but not limited to glycolide repeat units, polyeth-
ylene glycol repeat units, caprolactone repeat units, valero-
lactone repeat units, and the like. lnitiators for such poly-
mers include but are not limited to diol initiators including
l,6-hexanediol, 1,2-propanediol, 1,3-propanediol, 1,4-bu-
tanediol and the like; diol initiators including difunctional
poly(ethylene glycol)s (PEGs); monofunctional alcohol ini-
tiators including l-dodecanol, methyl lactate, ethyl lactate
and the like; monofunctional PEGs including methoxy(poly-
ethylene glycol) (mPEG); and other initiators including
water, glycolic acid, lactic acid, citric acid, and the like. In
preferred embodiments, the polymer comprises a biodegrad-

Jan. 3], 2019

able polymer, In additional preferred embodiments, the
polymer comprises a biocompatible polymer. In embodi-
ments, the polymer may be present in amounts ranging from
about 1 wt % to about 45 wt %; more preferably, the polymer
may be present in amounts ranging from about 5 wt % to
about 35 wt %; and yet more preferably the polymer may be
present in amounts ranging from about 5 wt % to about 25
wt %, all based on the total weight of the formulation, In
other embodiments, the polymer may be present in an
amount ranging from about 15 wt % to about 45 wt %;
preferably the polymer may be present in amounts ranging
from about 15 wt % to about 35 wt %, all based on the total
weight of the formulation.

[0051] “Repeat units” means residues of monomers that
are covalently incorporated into a polymer. In embodiments,
lactide repeat units comprise lactide residues. In certain
embodiments, glycolide repeat units comprise glycolide
residues. In embodiments, a linear polymer may possess a
ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units in the linear
polymer, wherein R may range from about 055 to about
0.95, Ranges of R of particular interest are from about 0.55
to 0.85, and from great than 085 to about 0.95. R may be
determined experimentally or analytically for each polymer
by proton NMR or similar techniques.

[0052] “Solvent(s) means materials that are capable of
dissolving other materials. Preferably, solvents used in the
practice of the present invention are biocompatible, water
miscible anrﬂor water soluble, and/or non-toxic. In embodi-
ments, the biologically active substance may be soluble in
the solvent. The solvents used to inject the inventive for-
mulations into animals should not cause signiﬁcant tissue
irritation or necrosis at the site of implantation, unless
irritation or necrosis is the desired effect.

[0053] The solvent is preferably water miscible and/or
water soluble, so that it will diffuse into bodily ﬂuids or other
aqueous environment, causing the formulation to assume a
more viscous form. Certain solvents that are not water
miscible and/or not water soluble may also be used in the
practice of the invention. Examples of suitable solvents
include but are not limited to ethanol, ethyl lactate, propyl-
ene carbonate, glycofurol, N-methylpyrrolidone, 2-pyrroli-
done, benzyl benzoate, miglyol, propylene glycol, acetone,
methyl acetate, ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, benzy
alcohol, triacetin, dimethylforrnamide, dimethylsulfoxide,
tetrahydrofuran, caprolactam, decylmethylsulfoxide, oleic
acid, and/or l-dodecylazacycloheptan-2-one, and combina-
tions of any ofthe above; with the proviso that one or more
of the above listed solvents may be speciﬁcally exclude
from the scope of the invention if it is to be disclaimed.

[0054] When SAIB is used as the HVLCM, the preferre
solvents include ethanol, dimethylsulfoxide, ethyl lactate,
ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, triacetin, N-methylpyrroli-
done, propylene carbonate, and glycofurol. SAIB is not
miscible with glycerol, com oil, peanut oil, 1,2-propanediol,
polyethylene glycol (PEG200), super reﬁned sesame oil, an
super reﬁned peanut oil. Accordingly, the latter group 0
solvents are not preferred for use with SAIB.

[0055] “Solvent capacity” means amount(s) of the one or
more solvents that dissolves the HVLCM and linear polymer
in the formulation to the same extent as would a hypothetica
amount of N-methylpyrrolidone in the formulation Solvent
capacity is expressed as that hypothetical weight percent 0
US 2019/0030032 A1

DEPOT FORMULATIONS

RELATED APPLICATIONS

[0001] The present application is a Continuation of appli-
cation Ser. No. 13/790,902, ﬁled Mar. 8, 2013, which is a
Continuation of application Ser. No. 12/152,764, ﬁled May
16, 2008, which is a non-provisional of Provisional Appli-
cation No 60/930,739, ﬁled May 18, 2007. The disclosures
of application Ser. Nos. 13/790,902 and 12/152,764 are
expressly incorporated by reference herein their entireties.

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

Field of the Invention

[0002] The invention relates to formulations comprising
non-polymeric, non-water soluble high viscosity liquid car-
rier materials, linear polymers and one or more solvents.
More particularly, the invention relates to such formulations
and their use in biologically active substance delivery.

Description of Related Art

[0003] There has been extensive research in the area of
biodegradable controlled release systems for bioactive com-
pounds, Biodegradable matrices for drug delivery are useful
because they obviate the need to remove the drug-depleted
device,

[0004] The most common matrix materials for drug deliv-
ery are polymers. The ﬁeld of biodegradable polymers has
developed rapidly since the synthesis and biodegradability
of potylactic acid was reported by Kulkarni et al., in 1966
(“Polylactic acid for surgical implants,” Arch. Surg,
93:839), Examples of other polymers which have been
reported as useful as a matrix material for delivery devices
include polyanhydrides, polyesters such as polyglycolides
and polylactide-co-glycolides, polyamino acids such as
polylysine, polymers and copolymers of polyethylene oxide,
acrylic terminated polyethylene oxide, polyamides, polyure-
thanes, polyorthoesters, polyacrylonitriles, and polyphosp-
hazenes, See, for example, US. Pat, Nos. 4,891,225 and
4,906,474 to Langer (polyanhydrides), U.Sl Pat No. 4,767,
628 to Hutchinson (polylactide, l polylactide-co-glycolide
acid), and US. Pat. No, 4,530,840 to Tice, et a1, (polylactide,
polyglycolide, and copolymers).

[0005] Degradable materials of biological origin are well
known, for example, crosslinked gelatin. Hyaluronic acid
has been crosslinked and used as a degradable swelling
polymer for biomedical applications (US. Pat. No. 4,957,
744 to Della Valle et al., (1991) “Surface modiﬁcation of
polymeric biomaterials for reduced thrombogenicity,”
Polym. Mater. Sci Eng, 62:731-735)

[0006] Biodegradable hydrogels have also been developed
for use in controlled drug delivery as carriers of biologically
active materials such as hormones, enzymes, antibiotics,
antineoplastic agents, and cell suspensions. Temporary pres-
ervation of functional properties of a carried species, as well
as the controlled release of the species into local tissues or
systemic circulation, have been achieved. See for example,
US Pat. No. 5,149,543 to Cohen. Proper choice ofhydrogel
macromers can produce membranes with a range of perme-
ability, pore sizes and degradation rates suitable for a variety
of applications in surgery, medical diagnosis and treatment.
[0007] Many dispersion systems are currently in use as, or
being explored for use as, carriers of substances, particularly

Jan. 31, 2019

biologically active compounds. Dispersion systems used for
pharmaceutical and cosmetic formulations can be catego-
rized as either suspensions or emulsions. Suspensions are
deﬁned as solid particles ranging in size from a few nano-
meters up to hundreds of microns, dispersed in a liquid
medium using suspending agents. Solid particles include
microspheres, microcapsules, and nanospheres. Emulsions
are deﬁned as dispersions of one liquid in another, stabilized
by an interfacial ﬁlm of emulsiﬁers such as surfactants and
lipids. Emulsion formulations include water in oil and oil in
water emulsions, multiple emulsions, microemulsions,
microdroplets, and liposomes, Microdroplets are unilamellar
phospholipid vesicles that consist of a spherical lipid layer
with an oil phase inside, as deﬁned in U.Sl Pat Nos.
4,622,219 and 4,725,442 issued to Haynes. Liposomes are
phospholipid vesicles prepared by mixing water-insoluble
polar lipids with an aqueous solution. The unfavorable
entropy caused by mixing the insoluble lipid in the water
produces a highly ordered assembly of concentric closed
membranes of phospholipid with entrapped aqueous solu-
tion.

[0008] US. Pat. No. 4,938,763 to Dunn, et al., discloses a
method for forming an implant in situ by dissolving a
non-reactive, water insoluble thermoplastic polymer in a
biocompatible, water soluble solvent to form a liquid, plac-
ing the liquid within the body, and allowing the solvent to
dissipate to produce a solid implantl The polymer solution
can be placed in the body via syringe. The implant can
assume the shape of its surrounding cavity. In an alternative
embodiment, the implant is formed from reactive, liquid
oligomeric polymers which contain no solvent and which
cure in place to form solids, usually with the addition of a
curing catalyst.

[0009] US. Pat. No. 5,747,058 to Tipton et al., discloses
a composition for the controlled release of substances that
includes: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water soluble liquid
carrier material (HVLCM) of viscosity of at least 5,000 cP
at 37ldegree. C that does not crystallize neat under ambient
or physiological conditions; and (ii) a substance to be
delivered.

[0010] While a number of materials have been evaluated
for use in the controlled delivery of substances, there
remains a need for formulations and methods that provide
controlled delivery of biologically active substances with
low toxicity,

BRIEF SUMNIARY OF THE INVENTION

[0011] In an aspect, the invention relates to formulations
comprising: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water soluble high
viscosity liquid carrier material having a viscosity of at least
5,000 cP at 37° C. that does not crystallize neat under
ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear polymer
comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear polymer
possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units
in the linear polymer; and (iii) one or more solvents that
have a solvent capacity; wherein the linear polymer has a
weight average molecular weight less than or equal to about
15,000 Daltons, and wherein (a) R satisﬁes the following:
about 0,55sRsabout 0.95; (b) when R satisﬁes the follow-
ing: about 0.555R50.85, the solvent capacity of the one or
more solvents is greater than or equal to about 20%; and (c)
when R satisﬁes the following: greater than about 0.85 to
about 0.95, the solvent capacity of the one or more solvents
is greater than or equal to about 10%.
(19) United States
(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2019/0030032 A1

WRIGHT et a].

US 20190030032Al

(43) Pub. Date: Jan. 31, 2019

 

(54)
(71)

(72)

(73)

(21)
(22)

(63)

(60)

DEPOT FORMULATIONS

Applicant: DURECT CORPORATION,
Cupeitino, CA (US)

Inventors: Jeremy C. WRIGHT, Los Altos, CA
(US); Felix THEEUWES, Los Altos
Hills, CA (US); John W. GIBSON,
Springville, AL (US); Keith E.
BRANHAM, Pelham, AL (US);
Stefania SJOBECK, Astorp (SE)

Assignee: DURECT CORPORATION,
Cupertino, CA (US)

Appl. No: 16/017,477
Filed: Jun. 25, 2018

Related US. Application! Data

Continuation of application No. 13/790,902, ﬁled on
Mar. 8, 2013, now Pat. No. 10,028,957, which is a
continuation of application No. 12/152,764, ﬁled on
May 16, 2008, now abandoned.

Provisional application No, 60/930,739, ﬁled on May
18, 2007.

Publication Classiﬁcation

(51) Int. Cl.
A61K 31/519 (2006.01)
A61K 47/22 (2006.01)
A61K 47/34 (2006.01)
A61K 47/26 (2006.01)
A61K 9/00 (2006.01)
A61K 9/10 (2006.01)
A61K 9/03 (2006.01)
(52) US. Cl.
CPC A6IK 31/519 (2013.01); A61K 47/22

 

(2013.01); A61K 47/34 (2013.01); A61K 47/26
(2013.01); A61K 9/10 (2013.01); A61K 9/08
(2013.01); A61K 9/0024 (2013.01); A61K
9/0019 (2013.01)

(57) ABSTRACT

Disclosed are fomiulations and related methods that com-
prise a non-polymeric, non-water soluble high Viscosity
liquid carrier material having a viscosity of at least 5,000 cP
at 37° C. that does not crystallize neat under ambient or
physiological conditions; a speciﬁed linear polymer com-
prising lactide repeat units; and one or more solvents that
have a solvent capacity.
US 2019/0030032 A1

[0012] In another aspect, the invention relates to formu-
lations comprising: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water soluble
high viscosity liquid carrier material having a viscosity of at
least 5,000 c? at 37° C, that does not crystallize neat under
ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear polymer
comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear polymer
possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units
in the linear polymer; and (iii) one or more solvents that
have a solvent capacity; wherein the linear polymer has a
weight average molecular weight less than or equal to about
15,000 Daltons, and wherein: (a) R satisﬁes the following:
about 0.55sRs0.85; and (b) the solvent capacity of the one
or more solvents is greater than or equal to about 20%i
[0013] In yet another aspect, the invention relates to
formulations comprising: (i) a non-polymeric; non-water
soluble high viscosity liquid canier material having a vis-
cosity of at least 5,000 c? at 37° C: that does not crystallize
neat under ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear
polymer comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear
polymer possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total
repeat units in the linear polymer; and (iii) one or more
solvents that have a solvent capacity; wherein the linear
polymer has a weight average molecular weight less than or
equal to about 15,000 Daltons, and wherein (a) R satisﬁes
the following: greater than about 0.85 to about 095; and (b)
the solvent capacity of the one or more solvents is greater
than or equal to about 10%.

[0014] In still another aspect, the invention relates to
formulations comprising: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water
soluble high viscosity liquid carrier material having a vis-
cosity of at least 5,000 c? at 37° C: that does not crystallize
neat under ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear
polymer comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear
polymer possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total
repeat units in the linear polymer, wherein R satisﬁes the
following: about 0,555Rsabout 0.95; and (iii) one or more
solvents present in an amount ranging from about one
weight percent up to about 35 weight percent, based on the
total weight of the formulation; wherein the linear polymer
has a weight average molecular weight less than or equal to
about 15,000 Daltons, and wherein the one or more solvents
comprise ethanol, ethyl lactate, propylene carbonate, glyco-
furol, N-methylpyrrolidone, 2-pyrrolidone, benzyl benzoate,
miglyol, propylene glycol, acetone, methyl acetate, ethyl
acetate, methyl ethyl ketone; benzyl alcohol, triacetin; dim-
ethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran, capro-
lactam, decylmethylsulfoxide, oleic acid, and/or l-dodecy-
lazacycloheptan-Z-one, and combinations of any of the
above:

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE
INVENTION

[0015] Before describing the present invention in detail, it
is to be understood that this invention is not limited to
particularly exempliﬁed materials or process parameters as
such may, of course, vary: It is also to be understood that the
terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing
particular embodiments of the invention only; and is not
intended to be limiting,

[0016] All publications, patents and patent applications
cited herein, whether supra or infra, are hereby incorporated
by reference in their entirety for all purposes:

[0017] As used in this speciﬁcation and the appended

claims, the singular forms “a.” “an” and “the” include plural

Jan. 31, 2019

referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. For
example, reference to “a polymer” includes a mixture of two
or more such molecules, reference to “a solvent” includes a
mixture of two or more such compositions, reference to “an
adhesive" includes mixtures of two or more such materials,
and the like,

A. Introduction

[0018] Surprisingly, the inventors have found that the
problems in the art may be addressed by providing formu-
lations that comprise: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water soluble
high viscosity liquid carrier material having a viscosity of at
least 5,000 c? at 37° C, that does not crystallize neat under
ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear polymer
comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear polymer
possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units
in the linear polymer; and (iii) one or more solvents that
have a solvent capacity; wherein the linear polymer has a
weight average molecular weight less than or equal to about
15,000 Daltons, and wherein (a) R satisﬁes the following:
about 0.555Rsabout 0.95; (b) when R satisﬁes the follow-
ing: about 0,555R50,85, the solvent capacity of the one or
more solvents is greater than or equal to about 20%; and (c)
when R satisﬁes the following: greater than about 0.85 to
about 095, the solvent capacity of the one or more solvents
is greater than or equal to about 10%:

[0019] Surprisingly, the inventors further have found that
the problems in the art may be addressed by providing
formulations that comprise: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water
soluble high viscosity liquid carrier material having a vis-
cosity of at least 5,000 c? at 37° C: that does not crystallize
neat under ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear
polymer comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear
polymer possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total
repeat units in the linear polymer; and (iii) one or more
solvents that have a solvent capacity; wherein the linear
polymer has a weight average molecular weight less than or
equal to about 15,000 Daltons, and wherein: (a) R satisﬁes
the following: about 0,555R50.85; and (b) the solvent
capacity of the one or more solvents is greater than or equal
to about 20%.

[0020] Additionally surprisingly, the inventors have found
that the problems in the art may be addressed by providing
formulations that comprise: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water
soluble high viscosity liquid carrier material having a vis-
cosity of at least 5,000 c? at 37° C: that does not crystallize
neat under ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear
polymer comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear
polymer possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total
repeat units in the linear polymer; and (iii) one or more
solvents that have a solvent capacity; wherein the linear
polymer has a weight average molecular weight less than or
equal to about 15,000 Daltons, and wherein (a) R satisﬁes
the following: greater than about 0:85 to about 0.95; and (b)
the solvent capacity of the one or more solvents is greater
than or equal to about 10%.

[0021] In addition, surprisingly, the inventors have found
that the problems in the art may be addressed by providing
formulations that comprise: (i) a non-polymeric, non-water
soluble high viscosity liquid carrier material having a vis-
cosity of at least 5,000 cP at 37° C. that does not crystallize
neat under ambient or physiological conditions; (ii) a linear
polymer comprising lactide repeat units, wherein the linear
polymer possesses a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total
US 2019/0030032 A1

repeat units in the linear polymer, wherein R satisﬁes the
following: about 0.555Rsabout 0.95; and (iii) one or more
solvents present in an amount ranging from about one
weight percent up to about 35 weight percent, based on the
total weight of the formulation; wherein the linear polymer
has a weight average molecular weight less than or equal to
about 15,000 Daltons, and wherein the one or more solvents
comprise ethanol, ethyl lactate, propylene carbonate, glyco-
furol, N-methylpyrrolidone, 2-pyrrolidone, benzyl benzoate,
miglyol, propylene glycol, acetone, methyl acetate, ethyl
acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, benzyl alcohol, triacetin, dim-
ethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide, tetrahydrofuran, capro-
lactam, decylmethylsulfoxide, oleic acid. and/or 1—dodecy-
lazacycloheptan-Z-one, and combinations of any of the
above.

[0022] Linear polymers according to the invention can be
used to alter the release proﬁle of the biologically active
substance to be delivered, to add integrity to the formulation,
or to otherwise modify the properties of the formulation,
Such linear polymers according to the invention comprise
lactide repeat units. An example of such a polymer is
poly(lactide-co-glycolide). The ratio R, which is the ratio of
lactide repeat units to total repeat units in the linear polymer,
is given in the “R column” of Table 1,

[0023] An important consideration in development of for-
mulations according to the invention is the miscibility or
solubility of the polymer in the formulation with the
HVLCM, In situations where the polymer is not miscible or
soluble in the formulation with the HVLCM, phase separa-
tion of the polymer and the HVLCM may occur. Once this
occurs, it may be very diﬂ'tcult to remix the polymer and the
HVLCM, especially at the point of use, Should improper
remixing of the formulation occur, it might not release drug
in a desired manner, Additionally, the formulations might be
difﬁcult to administer. Accordingly, formulations that have
high miscibility or solubility of the polymer in the fonnu-
lation with the HVLCM are desirable.

[0024] The inventive formulations possess this high mis-
cibility or solubility of the linear polymer in the formulation
with the HVLCM. As can be seen by inspecting Table 1, not
all formulations comprising linear polymers, HVLCMs, and
solvents result in useful formulations. The formulations
listed as “Comparative Formulations” are examples of for-
mulations that were not considered to be useful in the
context of the present invention. In contrast, the inventive
embodiments, such as those exempliﬁed in Table l, are
useful and exhibit little if any phase separation,

[0025] The eifect of solvent capacity can be seen, for
instance, by examining Formulation 6, which exhibits
acceptable solubility behavior. This Formulation comprises
55 wt % sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB), 25 wt % NMP,
and 20 wt % of a poly (lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA) having
an R of0.65 and a Mw of5300, Formulation 6 has a solvent
capacity of 25 wt %. By way of comparison, Formulations
C11 and C12 are also presented Formulation C1 1 comprises
55 wt % sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB), 20 wt % NMP,
5 wt % of DMSO, and 20 wt “/0 of a poly (lactide-co-
glycolide) (PLGA) having an R of 0.65 and a Mw of 5300.
Likewise, Formulation C12 comprises 55 wt % sucrose
acetate isobutyrate (SAIB), 20 wt % NMP, 5 wt % ofbenzyl
benzoate, and 20 wt % of a poly (lactide-co-glycolide)
(PLGA) having an R of 0,65 and a Mw of 5300. Formula-
tions C11 and C12 comprise less than 25 wt % NMP, and are
inadequate with respect to their solubility perfomiance.

Jan. 31, 2019

Therefore, the formulations C11 and C12 do not meet the
solvent capability requirements and are thus not inventive
embodiments of the present invention.

[0026] Another way of understanding solvent capacity is
shown in Examples 7 and 8. These Examples show how it
is possible to determine the solvent capacity for the inven-
tive formulations This is performed for two additional
solvent systems, besides the baseline NMP solvent system,
and in two different embodiments of the inventive formu-
lations.

[0027] Examples 9 and 10 show embodiments of the
inventive fomiulations that comprise biologically active
substances,

[0028] The invention will now be described in more detail.

Deﬁnitions
[0029] All percentages are weight percent unless other-
wise noted.
[0030] All references cited herein are incorporated herein

by reference in their entirety and for all purposes to the same
extent as if each individual publication or patent or patent
application was speciﬁcally and individually indicated to be
incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes
and/or reproduced fully herein. The discussion of references
herein is intended merely to summarize the assertions made
by their authors and no admission is made that any reference
constitutes prior art. Applicants reserve the right to chal-
lenge the accuracy and pertinence of the cited references.
[0031] The present invention is best understood by refer-
ence to the following deﬁnitions, the drawings and exem-
plary disclosure provided herein.

[0032] “Administering” or “administration” means pro-
viding a drug to a subject in a manner that is phamiacologi-
cally useful

[0033] “Biologically active substance” means molecule(s)
including a drug, peptide, protein, carbohydrate (including
monosaccharides, oligosaccharides, and polysaccharides),
nucleoprotein, mucoprotein, lipoproteirL synthetic polypep-
tide or protein. or a small molecule linked to a protein.
glycoprotein, steroid, nucleic acid (any form of DNA,
including cDNA, or RNA, or a fragment thereof), nucleo-
tide, nucleoside, oligonuclcotides (including antisense oli-
gonucleotides), gene, lipid, hormone, mineral supplement,
vitamin including vitamin C and vitamin E, or combinations
of any of the above, that cause(s) a biological effect when
administered in vivo to an animal, including but not limited
to birds and manunals, including humans

[0034] Drug means any substance used internally or exter-
nally as a medicine for the treatment, cure, or prevention of
a disease or disorder, and includes but is not limited to
immunosuppressants, antioxidants, anesthetics, chemo-
therapeutic agents, steroids (including retinoids), hormones,
antibiotics, antivirals, antifungals, antiproliferatives, antihis-
tamines, anticoagulants, antiphotoaging agents, melano-
tropic peptides, nonsteroidal and steroidal anti-inﬂammatory
compounds, antipsychotics, and radiation absorbers, includ-
ing UV-absorbers.

[0035] The term biologically active substance also
includes agents such as insecticides, pesticides, fungicides,
rodenticides, and plant nutrients and growth promoters,
[0036] In one embodiment, the formulation is a vaccine
and the substance to be delivered is an antigen, The antigen
can be derived from a cell, bacteria, or virus particle, or
portion thereof As deﬁned herein, antigen may be a protein.
US 2019/0030032 A1

apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing
description. Such modiﬁcations and variations are intended
to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present
invention is to be limited only by the terms of the appended
claims, along with the full scope of equivalents to which
such claims are entitled

[0079] The following Examples are meant to be illustra-
tive of the claimed invention, and not limiting in any way.

EXAMPLES

Example 1: Formulation Examples

[0080] Various formulation examples according to the
invention, together with various comparative formulation
examples, were prepared. Information relating to these
examples is set forth in Table 1, The polymer synthesis, and
formulation techniques for several representative examples
have been set forth below. The remaining non-representative
examples were prepared using such representative tech-
niques, and with conventionally obtainable modiﬁcations to
the representative techniques.

Example 2

[0081] A 500 mL three-neck round bottom ﬂask, a glass
stirrer bearing, a gas joint, and a glass stirring shaft were
dried in a glassware oven at 100° C. to remove all traces of
moisture. The following materials were transferred to the
ﬂask: 179.00 g DL-lactide, 71.00 g of glycolide, and 13.75
g 1,6-hexanediol. The ﬂask was equipped with the stirring
shaft with a Teﬂon paddle, the stirrer bearing, and a gas joint
connected to a manifold with vacuum and nitrogen gas
supply. The stirrer shaft/bearing was sealed with a rubber
balloon and the reaction mixture was evacuated for several
minutes and the ﬂask was backﬁlled with nitrogen gas. The
ﬂask was immersed in an oil bath maintained at 150° C. and
stirred using an overhead stirrer attached to the shaft/paddle
assembly, Once all of the monomer had melted, a charge of
stannous 2-ethylhexanoate was added, 0075 g in a solution
of toluene (559 mL of a solution with a concentration of
0.13416 g/mL) was added to the melt. Stirring was contin-
ued for 4 hours Next, the temperature of the oil bath was
reduced to 1150 C., stirring was stopped, and the stirrer
shaﬂ/bearing was sealed with a rubber balloon and the
reaction mixture was evacuated under full vacuum for 1
hour. The polymer was then poured onto a piece of Teﬂon
ﬁlm in a glass dish and allowed to cool. The ﬁnished
polymer was stored protected from ambient moisture in a
vacuum oven and/or plastic bags. The resulting polymer had
a MW of 5300 Da as determined approximately by GPC, and
an R ratio of 065.

Example 3: Formulation 6

[0082] PLGA polymer produced according to Example 2
was removed from cold storage & allowed to warm to room
temperature. SAIB (in a glass jar) was heated to 80° C. for
several hours. 5.69 grams of hot SAIB were poured into a
glass jar. Next, 2.59 grams of NMP were dispensed into the
glass jar. Next, 2.05 grams of 65/35 PLGA polymer were
dispensed into the glass jar. The jar was sealed and fastened
to a rotating mixing wheel. The mixing wheel was placed
into an 80° C. oven and turned on so that the jar rotated at
the outside of a circular path at a rate sufﬁcient to achieve
mixing. After two hours of mixing at 80° C., the jar was

Jan. 31, 2019

removed from the mixing wheel and allowed to cool to room
temperature. The formulation composition was 55% SAIB,
25% NMP and 20% PLGA. On standing, the formulation
remained clear and did not exhibit any evidence of phase
separation.

Example 4

[0083] A l L three-neck round bottom ﬂask, a glass stirrer
bearing, a gas joint, and a stirring shaﬁ were dried in a
glassware oven at 100° C. to remove all traces of moisture.
The following materials were transferred to the ﬂask: 17900
g DL-lactide, 71.00 g of glycolide, and 2.1 g of water. The
ﬂask was equipped with a stirring shaﬂ and a Teﬂon paddle,
a stirrer bearing, and a gas joint connected to a manifold with
vacuum and nitrogen gas supply. The stirrer shalt/bearing
was sealed and the reaction mixture was evacuated for
several minutes and the ﬂask was backﬁlled with nitrogen
gas. This was repeated 4 additional times. The ﬂask was
immersed in an oil bath maintained at 159° C. and stirred
using an overhead stirrer attached to the shaft/paddle assem-
bly. Once all of the monomer had melted, a charge of
stannous 2-ethylhexanoate, 0.1125 g in a solution of toluene,
was added to the melt. Stirring was continued for 15 hours,
Next, the temperature of the oil bath was reduced to 115° C.,
stirring was stopped, and the stirrer shalt/bearing was sealed
and the reaction mixture was evacuated under full vacuum
for 1 hour. The polymer was then poured onto a piece of
Teﬂon ﬁlm in a glass dish and allowed to cool. The ﬁnished
polymer was stored protected from ambient moisture in a
vacuum oven and/or plastic bags. The resulting polymer had
a MW of 7200 Da as determined approximately by GPC, and
an R ratio of 065.

Example 5: Comparative Formulation C3

[0084] 3.28 grams of PLGA polymer made according to
Example 4 were dissolved in a mixture of 1.55 grams of
DMSO and 1.55 grams of ethanol. 2498 grams of warm
SAIB were added, with a resulting nominal formulation of
10.5% PLGA, 49% DMSO, 49% ethano and 79.7% SAIB,
The formulation separated into two Jhases at room tempera-
ture. Additional DMSO (3.90 grams) and additional ethanol
(225 grams) were added to yield a nominal formulation of
8.8% PLGA, 14.5% DMSO, 10.1% etianol and 66.6%

SAIB. The formulation remained se Jarated into two phases.

Example 6: Formulation 6 (Alternate Formulation
Methodology

V

[0085] PLGA polymer produced accorcing to Example 2
was removed from cold storage & a lowed to warm to room
temperature. 2036 grams of 65/35 PLGA polymer were
dispensed into a glass jar. 25.45 grams of NMP were added
to the jar and the jar was sealed. The jar was fastened to a
rotating mixing wheel (Glas Col, erre iaute, 1nd,). The
mixing wheel was turned on so that the jar rotated at the
outside of a circular path, with hating at approximately 80
C until the polymer was dissolved in the NMP. 55.49 grams
of SAIB (warmed) were added to tie po ymer/NMP solu-
tion. The jar was sealed and fastened to a rotating mixing
wheel (Glas Col, Terre Haute, 1nd,). The mixing wheel was
turned on so that the jar rotated at tie outside of a circular
path at a speed sufﬁcient to achieve mixing. The solution
was mixed until a uniform preparation was achieved. The
formulation composition was 55% SAIB, 25% NMP and
US 2019/0030032 A1

20% PLGA, all expressed as wt % based on total weight of
the formulation. On standing, the vehicle remained clear and
did not exhibit any evidence of phase separation.

Example 7: Solvent Capacity Experiments

[0086] Approximately 2.5 g of PLGA having a molecular
weight of 4700 Da, a lactide/glycolide ratio of 65/35, and
initiated by hexanediol; and 6.855 g of SAIB were added to
a vial (Le. ﬁxed weight relationship of polymer to SAIB).
Solvents, as shown in Table 2 below, were slowly added and
the formulation was mixed at 60° C. in a Emprotech
Unitherm® oven until a single phase solution was formed.
The solution was then removed from the oven and allowed
to sit on a bench top at roughly room temperature for
approximately a week. If the solution phase separated more
solvent was added and the formulation was mixed at 60° C.
until a single phase solution was formed and remained a
single phase for one week while sitting on the bench top at
roughly room temperature. The ﬁnal compositions are
shown in Table as shown in Table 2 below. The solvent
capacity of this vehicle was 25.61 wt %. 26.44 wt % wt %

of BA or 42.64 wt % of DMSO were needed to achieve that
solvent capacity.

TABLE 2

(ﬁgures are weight percent of total ﬁnal weieht)

Material Trial A Trial B Trial C
SAIB 53.86 41.99 54.55

PLGA 19.70 15.37 19.84

NMP 25.61

EA 26.44

DMSO 42.64

Jan. 3], 2019

TABLE 3

(Figures are wei ht Dercent of tom] ﬁnal weight)

Material Trial D Trial E Trial F
SAIB 58.83 50.37 60.58
PLGA 21.47 18.41 22.06
NMP 17.36
EA 19.70

DMSO 31.22

Example 9: Naltrexone Formulation

[0088] 0555 grams of PLGA (65/35 LG, 1-dodecanol
initiated, MW of 6400 Daltons by GPC, from DURECT®
Birmingham) was mixed with 3620 grams of Benzyl Alco-
hol (from J .T.Baker) in a sealed bottle by gentle inversion
inside a Lindberg/Blue M oven at 60° C. for 35 minutes,
resulting in homogeneous solution. To this mixture was
added 6094 grams of hot SAIB (from Eastman Chemicals).
The vehicle was mixed by gentle inversion for approxi-
mately 65 hours at room temperature. A uniform vehicle
resulted (SAlB/benzyl alcohol/PLGA 59.34/35.25/5.40).
0118 grams of nalu'exone base (Mallinckrodt) was added to
a separate bottle. 4205 grams of the vehicle was added to
this bottle. The naltrexone was dissolved in the Vehicle by
gentle inversion for approximately 3 hours, resulting in a
uniform clear solution that was pale yellow in color. The
composition of the naltrexone formulation (in wt % based on
total formulation weight) was:

PLGA: 5.3%

Benzyl alcohol
SAIB
Naltrexone

34.3%
57.7%
2.7%

Example 8: Solvent Capacity Experiments

[0087] Approximately 2.5 g of PLGA having a molecular
weight of 6600 Da, a lactide/glycolide ratio of 65/35, and
initiated with dodecanol; and 6.855 g of SAIB were added
to a vial. Solvents, as shown in Table 3 below, were slowly
added and the formulation was mixed at 60° C. in a
Emprotech Unitherm® oven until a single phase solution
was formed. The solution was then removed from the oven
and allowed to sit on a bench top at roughly room tempera-
ture for approximately a week. If the solution phase sepa-
rated more solvent was added and the formulation was
mixed at 60° C. until a single phase solution was formed and
remained a single phase for one week while sitting on the
bench top at roughly room temperature. The ﬁnal compo-
sitions are shown in Table 3 below. The solvent capacity of
this vehicle was 17.36 wt %. 19.70 wt % of BA or 31.22 wt
% of DMSO were needed to achieve that solvent capacity.

Example 10: Risperidone Formulation

[0089] The atypical antipsychotic drug risperidone was
added to the formulation of Example 3 (Formulation 26) as
follows:

To 7.33 grams of Formulation 26, 1.095 grams of risperi-
done (from Kemprotec) were added. The vial was placed on
a Glas-Col rotating wheel set at 30% for approximately two
hours until a homogeneous suspension was obtained. The
resulting formulation had the composition of 48% SAlB,
22% NMP, 17% PLGA and 13% Risperidone, with percent-
ages expressed as weight percent based on total weight of
the formulation. The resulting vehicle was a stable homo-
geneous suspension.

TABLE 1
MW
Formulation #: Polymer R (GPC) Formulation composition
1 PLGA 55/357 0.55 7200 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGAVCOOH:
coon 68.4/13.2/9.2/9.3
2 PLGA 55/35 0.55 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGAz70/25/S
3 PLGA 55/35 0.55 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 70.3/203/931
4 PLGA 55/35 0.55 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA:59.7/26.5/13.8
5 PLGA 55/35 0.55 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 55/30/15
5 PLGA 55/35 0.55 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 55/25/20

Solubility Behavior

Soluble

Soluble
Soluble
Soluble
Soluble
Soluble
US 2019/0030032 A1 Jan. 31, 2019
12

67 i The formulation of claim 64, wherein the linear
poly(lactide-co-g1ycolide) is present in an amount ranging
from about 15 Wt % to 45 wt %, based on the total weight
of the vehicle

68‘ The formulation of claim 64, wherein the linear
poly(lactide-co-glycolide) has a weight average molecular
weightless than 1215 kilodaltons.

691 The formulation of claim 64, wherein the one or more
solvents is present in an amount ranging from 25 weight
percent up to about 35 weight percent, based on the total
weight of the vehicle,

70‘ A method of administering a biologically active sub-
stance comprising administering the formulation of claim
64.
US 2019/0030032 A1
11

46. The formulation of claim 41, wherein when R satisﬁes
the following: greater than 0.85 to about 0.95, the solvent

capacity of the one or more solvents is greater than or equal
to about 15%,

47 . The formulation of claim 41, wherein when R satisﬁes
the following: greater than 0.85 to about 0.95, the solvent
capacity of the one or more solvents is greater than 20%.

48. A method of administering a biologically active sub-
stance comprising administering the formulation of claim
41.

49. A formulation comprising:

a biologically active substance; and

a vehicle comprising:

(i) sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB) in an amount of

from 25 to 85 wt % based on total weight of the vehicle;

(ii) a linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) in an amount of

from 10 to 45 wt % based on total weight ofthe vehicle,
wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) possesses
a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units in
the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide); and

(iii) one or more solvents that have a solvent capacity,

wherein the one or more solvents dissolve the SAIB
and the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide), and wherein
the SAIB, linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide), and one or
more solvents are monophasic when maintained at
approximately 25° C. for a one-week period;

wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) has a weight

average molecular weight less than or equal to 15
kilodaltons, and

wherein:

(a) R satisﬁes the following: 0.555R50.85; and

(b) the solvent capacity of the one or more solvents is

greater than or equal to 25%.

50. The formulation of claim 49, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an atypical antipsychotic.

51. The formulation of claim 49, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an antiviral.

52. The formulation of claim 49, wherein the linear
poly(lactide-co-glycolide) is present in an amount ranging
from about 15 wt % to 45 wt %, based on the total weight
of the vehicle.

53. The formulation of claim 49, wherein the linear
poly(lactide-co-glycolide) has a weight average molecular
weight less than 12.5 kilodaltons.

54. A method of administering a biologically active sub-
stance comprising administering the formulation of claim
49.

55. A formulation comprising:

a biologically active substance; and

a vehicle comprising:

(i) sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB) in an amount of

from 25 to 85 wt % based on total weight of the vehicle;

(ii) a linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) in an amount of

from 10 to 45 wt % based on total weight of the vehicle,
wherein the linear poly(lactide-co—glycolide) possesses
a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units in
the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide); and

(iii) one or more solvents that have a solvent capacity,

wherein the one or more solvents dissolve the SAIB
and the linear poly(lactide—co-glycolide), and wherein
the SAIB, linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide), and one or
more solvents are monophasic when maintained at
approximately 25° C. for a one-week period;

Jan. 31, 2019

wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) has a weight
average molecular weight less than or equal to 15
kilodaltons, and wherein

R satisﬁes the following: greater than 0.85 to about 0.95;

and

the solvent capacity of the one or more solvents is greater

than or equal to about 10%.

56. The formulation of claim 55, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an atypical antipsychotic.

57. The formulation of claim 55, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an antiviral.

58, The formulation of claim 55, wherein the linear
poly(lactide-co-glycolide) is present in an amount ranging
from about 15 wt % to 45 wt %, based on the total weight
of the vehicle.

59, The formulation of claim 55, wherein the linear
poly(lactide—co-glycolide) has a weight average molecular
weight less than 12.5 kilodaltons.

60. The formulation of claim 55, wherein the solvent
capacity of the one or more solvents is greater than or equal
to about 15%.

61. The formulation of claim 55, wherein the solvent
capacity is greater than 20%.

62. The formulation of claim 55, wherein the solvent
capacity of the one or more solvents is greater than or equal
to about 25%.

63, Amethod of administering a biologically active sub-
stance comprising administering the formulation of claim
55.

64, A formulation comprising:

a biologically active substance; and

a vehicle comprising:

(i) sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB) in an amount of

from 25 to 85 wt “/0 based on total weight ofthe vehicle;
(ii) a linear poly(lactide—co-glycolide) in an amount of
from 10 to 45 wt % based on total weight of the vehicle,
wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) possesses
a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units in
the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide), wherein R satis-
ﬁes the following: 0.555Rsabout 0.95; and
(iii) one or more solvents present in an amount ranging
from 25 weight percent up to about 43 weight percent,
based on total weight of the vehicle, wherein the one or
more solvents dissolve the SAIB and the linear poly
(lactide-co-glycolide), and wherein the SAIB, linear
poly(lactide—co-g1ycolide), and one or more solvents
are monophasic when maintained at approximately 25°
C. for a one-week period;

wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) has a weight
average molecular weight less than or equal to 15
kilodaltons, and

wherein the one or more solvents comprise ethanol, ethyl

lactate, propylene carbonate, glycofurol, N-methylpyr-
rolidone, 2-pyrrolidone, benzyl benzoate, caprylic/ca-
pric triglyceride, propylene glycol, acetone, methyl
acetate, ethyl acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, benzyl alco-
hol, triacetin, dimethylformamide, dimethylsulfoxide,
tetrahydrofuran, caprolactam, decylmethylsulfoxide,
oleic acid, l-dodecylazacycloheptan-2-one, and com-
binations thereof.

65, The formulation of claim 64, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an atypical antipsychotic,

66. The formulation of claim 64, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an antiviral.
US 2019/0030032 A1

 

 

10

TABLE l-continued

Jan. 31, 2019

1.-40. (canceled)

41: A formulation comprising:

a biologically active substance; and

a vehicle comprising:

(i) sucrose acetate isobutyrate (SAIB) in an amount of
from 25 to 85 wt % based on total weight of the vehicle;

(ii) a linear poly(lactide—co-glycolide) in an amount of
from 10 to 45 wt % based on total weight of the vehicle,
wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) possesses
a ratio R of lactide repeat units to total repeat units in
the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide); and

(iii) one or more solvents that have a solvent capacity,
wherein the one or more solvents dissolve the SAIB
and the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide), and wherein
the SAIB, linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide), and one or
more solvents are monophasic when maintained at
approximately 25° C. for a one-week period;

wherein the linear poly(lactide-co-glycolide) has a weight
average molecular weight less than or equal to 15
kilodaltons, and wherein

MW
Fonnulallon 1;: Polymer R (GPC) Folmulallon composnlon Soluhlllty Behavior
7 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGA: 58.6/14.0/9.4/18.0 cloudy but single phase
3 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGA: Soluble
55.0/15.1/10.0/20.0
9 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGA: 55.1/19.9/5.0/20.0 Soluble
10 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/DMSO/PLGA: Soluble
54.1/19.8/6.0/20.1
11 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/BA/PLGA: 55/20/5/20 Soluble
12 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/EtOH/PLGA: 55/25/5/5 Soluble
13 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/BA/PLGA: 65/25/5/5 Soluble
14 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/NMP/PLGA: 65/25/5/5 Soluble
15 PLGA 65/35 0.65 4100 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: S3.1/21.9/25.0 Soluble
16 PLGA 65/35 0.65 4100 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 492122.6/232 Soluble
17 PLGA 65/35 0.65 4100 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 29.7/33.9/36.4 Soluble
13 PLGA 65/35 0.65 3200 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 70.0/20.0/10.0 Soluble
19 PLGA 65/35 0.65 4700 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 55/25/20 Soluble
20 PLGA 65/35 0.65 6600 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 55/25/20 Soluble
21 PLGA 65/35 0.65 6600 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGA: 55/15/10/20 Soluble
22 PLGA 60/40 0.6 3200 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 70.0/20.0/10.0 Soluble
23 PLGA 55/45 0.55 3200 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 65/25/10 Soluble
01 PLGA 0.65 7200 SAIB/NMP/PLGA-COOH: 70/25/5 n61 soluble
65/35-
coon
02 PLGA 0.65 7200 SAIB/BA/EIOH/PLGAVCOOH: not soluble
65/35 65.3/14.1/11.1/9.5
coon
c3 PLGA 0.65 7200 SAIB/DMSO/EtOH/PLGA: not soluble
65/35- 66.6/14.5/10.l/8.8
000H
c4 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 75/15/10 not soluble
c5 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 65/20/15 n61 soluble
C6 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/PLGA: 60/20/20 n61 soluble
c7 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGA: 72.9/8.8/8.6/9.6 n61 soluble
cs PLGA 6.5/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/EtOH/PLGA: 62.0/17.2/4.6/16.2 separates long lenn
09 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/DMSO/PLGA: separates long term
53.8/15.4/10.8/20.1
010 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/DMSO/PLGA: separates long term
54.9/15.0/9.s/20.1
011 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/DMSO/PLGA: 55/20/5/20 separates long term
012 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/NMP/BB/PLGA: 55/20/5/20 not soluble
013 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/PLGA: 70/25/5 not soluble
014 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/PLGA: 65/30/5 not soluble
015 PLGA 6.5/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/EtOH/PLGA: 71.7/10.0/s.7/9.7 n61 soluble
016 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/DMSO/BB/PLGA: 65/25/5/5 n61 soluble
017 PLGA 65/35 0.65 5300 SAIB/BA/EtOH/PLGA: 69.8/11.8/8.8/9.5 n61 soluble
C18 PLGA 0.50 5500 SAIB/NMP/PLGA-COOH: 70/25/5 separates at RT & 37 C.
50/507
coon

 

(a) R satisﬁes the following: 0.555Rsabout 0.95;

(b) when R satisﬁes the following: 0.555R50l85, the
solvent capacity of the one or more solvents is greater
than or equal to 25%; and

(c) when R satisﬁes the following: greater than 0.85 to
about 0.95, the solvent capacity of the one or more
solvents is greater than or equal to about 10%.

42. The formulation of claim 41, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an atypical antipsychotic.

43. The formulation of claim 41, wherein the biologically
active substance comprises an antiviral.

44. The formulation of claim 41, wherein the linear
poly(lactide—co-glycolide) is present in an amount ranging
from about 15 wt % to 45 wt %, based on the total weight
of the vehicle.

45. The formulation of claim 41, wherein the linear
poly(lactide—co-glycolide) has a weight average molecular
weight less than 12.5 kilodaltons.
