US 2019/0031685 A1

include, but are not limited to, Huntington’s disease, Par-
kinson’s disease, restless leg syndrome, and essential
tremor.

[0177] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing schizophrenia, com-
prising administering a compound provided herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or
a pharmaceutical composition provided herein, to a subject
in need thereof

[0178] In one embodiment. provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing psychosis, comprising
administering a compound provided herein, or a pharma-
ceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a phar-
maceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in need
thereof.

[0179] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing schizophrenia or psy-
chosis, including but not limited to, schizophrenia-related
disorders, schizophrenia spectrum disorder, acute schizo-
phrenia, chronic schizophrenia, NOS schizophrenia, schizo-
affective disorder, schizophreniform disorder, paraphrenia,
paranoid personality disorder, schizoid personality disorder,
schizotypal personality disorder, delusional disorder, a dis-
ease having a psychosis component, psychotic disorder,
brief psychotic disorder, Alzheimer’s psychosis, Parkinson’s
psychosis, shared psychotic disorder, substance-induced
psychotic disorder (erg, cocaine, opiate, alcohol, nicotine,
or amphetamine), psychotic disorder due to a general medi-
cal condition, psychoaﬂective disorder, aggression,
delirium, excitative psychosis, Tourette’s syndrome, manic
disorder, organic psychosis, and NOS psychosis, comprising
administering a compound provided herein, or a pharma-
ceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a phar-
maceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in need
thereof

[0180] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing schizophrenia, includ-
ing, but not limited to, a schizophrenia-related disorder,
schizophrenia spectrum disorder, acute schizophrenia,
chronic schizophrenia, NOS schizophrenia, schizoaffective
disorder, schizophreniform disorder, paraphrenia, paranoid
personality disorder, schizoid personality disorder, schizo-
typal personality disorder, or delusional disorder, compris-
ing administering a compound provided herein, or a phar-
maceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a
pharmaceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in
need thereof. In one embodiment, the compounds provided
herein treat, prevent, and/or ameliorate one or more positive
symptoms of schizophrenia. In one embodiment, the com-
pounds provided herein treat, prevent, and/or ameliorate one
or more negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In one
embodiment, the compounds provided herein treat, prevent,
and/or ameliorate one or more cognitive symptoms of
schizophrenia,

[0181] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing psychosis, including,
but not limited to, a disease having a psychosis component,
psychotic disorder, brief psychotic disorder, Alzheimer’s
psychosis, Parkinson’s psychosis, shared psychotic disorder,
substance-induced psychotic disorder (erg, cocaine, opiate,
alcohol, or amphetamine), psychotic disorder due to a gen-
eral medical condition, psychoaffective disorder, aggression,
delirium, excitative psychosis, Tourette’s syndrome, manic
disorder, organic psychosis, or NOS psychosis, comprising

Jan. 31, 2019

administering a compound provided herein, or a pharma-
ceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a phar-
maceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in need
thereof

[0182] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a disease having a
psychosis component, including but not limited to psychotic
disorder, brief psychotic disorder, Alzheimer’s psychosis,
Parkinson's psychosis, shared psychotic disorder, sub-
stance-induced psychotic disorder (e.g., cocaine, opiate,
alcohol, or amphetamine), psychotic disorder due to a gen-
eral medical condition, psychoaffective disorder, aggression,
delirium, excitative psychosis, Tourette’s syndrome, manic
disorder, organic psychosis, and NOS psychosis, comprising
administering to a subject an etfective amount of a com-
pound provided herein.

[0183] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a psychotic disorder
or a psychotic condition, including but not limited to,
schizophrenia, delusional disorder, and drug induced psy-
chosis, among others, comprising administering to a subject
an effective amount of a compound provided herein,
[0184] In one embodiment, the psychotic disorders pro-
vided herein that can be treated, prevented, and/or managed
using a compound or a pharmaceutical composition pro-
vided herein include, but are not limited to, schizophrenia,
e.g., of the paranoid, disorganized, catatonic, undifferenti-
ated, and/or residual type; schizophreniform disorder;
schizoaffective disorder, e.g,, of the delusional and/or
depressive type; delusional disorder; substance-induced psy-
chotic disorder, e.g,, psychosis induced by alcohol, amphet-
amine, cannabis, cocaine, hallucinogens, inhalants, opioids,
and/or phencyclidine, personality disorder of the paranoid
type; and personality disorder of the schizoid type.

[0185] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a neurologic disorder,
including but not limited to, schizophrenia of a paranoid,
disorganized, catatonic, undifferentiated or residual type,
schizophreniform disorder; schizoaffective disorder of the
delusional type or the depressive type, delusional disorder,
substance-induced psychotic disorder, psychosis induced by
alcohol, amphetamine, cannabis, cocaine, hallucinogens,
inhalants, opioids, or phencyclidine, personality disorder of
the paranoid type, and personality disorder of the schizoid
type, comprising administering to a subject an effective
amount of a compound provided herein,

[0186] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing an affective disorder,
comprising administering a compound provided herein, or a
phannaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or
a pharmaceutical composition provided herein, to a subject
in need thereof.

[0187] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing depression, compris-
ing administering a compound provided herein, or a phar-
maceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a
pharmaceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in
need thereof.

[0188] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing an affective disorder
or depression, including but not limited to, a major depres-
sive episode of the mild, moderate or severe type; a manic
or mixed mood episode; a hypomanic mood episode; a
depressive episode with atypical features; a depressive epi-
US 2019/0031685 A1

able for use in pharmaceutical compositions and dosage
forms include, but are not limited to, corn starch, potato
starch, or other starches, gelatin, natural and synthetic gums
such as acacia, sodium alginate, alginic acid, other alginates,
powdered tragacanth, guar gum, cellulose and its derivatives
(eg, ethyl cellulose, cellulose acetate, carboxymethyl cel-
lulose calcium, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose), polyvinyl
pyrrolidone, methyl cellulose, pre-gelatinized starch,
hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose, (e.g., Nos. 2208, 2906,
2910), microcrystalline cellulose, and mixtures thereof
[0251] Suitable forms of microcrystalline cellulose
include, but are not limited to, the materials sold as AVI-
CEL-PH-lOl , AVICEL-PH-103 AVICEL RC-581,AVICEL-
PH-105 (available from FMC Corporation, American Vis-
cose Division, Avicel Sales, Marcus Hook, Pa), and
mixtures thereof. A speciﬁc binder is a mixture of microc-
rystalline cellulose and sodium carboxymethyl cellulose
sold as AVICEL RC-581. Suitable anhydrous or low mois-
ture excipients or additives include AVICEL-PH-103TM and
Starch 1500 LM.

[0252] Examples of ﬁllers suitable for use in the pharma-
ceutical compositions and dosage forms provided herein
include, but are not limited to, talc, calcium carbonate (e,g.,
granules or powder), microcrystalline cellulose, powdered
cellulose, dextrates, kaolin, mannitol, silicic acid, sorbitol,
starch, pre—gelatinized starch, and mixtures thereof. The
hinder or ﬁller in pharmaceutical compositions is, in one
embodiment, present in from about 50 to about 99 weight
percent of the pharmaceutical composition or dosage form.
[0253] Disintegrants may be used in the compositions to
provide tablets that disintegrate when exposed to an aqueous
environment. Tablets that contain too much disintegrant may
disintegrate in storage, while those that contain too little may
not disintegrate at a desired rate or under the desired
conditions. Thus, a sufﬁcient amount of disintegrant that is
neither too much nor too little to detrimentally alter the
release of the active ingredients may be used to form solid
oral dosage forms, The amount of disintegrant used varies
based upon the type of formulation, and is readily discern-
ible to those of ordinary skill in the art. In one embodiment,
pharmaceutical compositions comprise from about 0.5 to
about 15 weight percent of disintegrant, or from about 1 to
about 5 weight percent of disintegrant.

[0254] Disintegrants that can be used in pharmaceutical
compositions and dosage forms include, but are not limited
to, agar-agar, alginic acid, calcium carbonate, microcrystal-
line cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, crospovidone, polac-
rilin potassium, sodium starch glycolate, potato or tapioca
starch, other starches, pre-gelatinized starch, other starches,
clays, other algins, other celluloses, gums, and mixtures
thereof.

[0255] Lubricants that can be used in pharmaceutical
compositions and dosage forms include, but are not limited
to, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, mineral oil, light
mineral oil, glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol, polyethylene gly-
col, other glycols, stearic acid, sodium lauryl sulfate, talc,
hydrogenated vegetable oil (e.g., peanut oil, cottonseed oil,
sunﬂower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil, and soybean
oil), zinc stearate, ethyl oleate, ethyl laureate, agar, and
mixtures thereof. Additional lubricants include, for example,
a syloid silica gel (AEROSIL200, manufactured by WR.
Grace Co of Baltimore, Md), a coagulated aerosol of
symthetic silica (marketed by Degussa Co. of Plano, Tex),
CAB-O-SIL (a pyrogenic silicon dioxide product sold by

Jan. 31, 2019

Cabot Co. of Boston, Mass), and mixtures thereof. If used
at all, lubricants may be used in an amount of less than about
1 weight percent of the pharmaceutical compositions or
dosage forms into which they are incorporated,

[0256] In one embodiment, a solid oral dosage form
comprises a compound provided herein, and optional excipi-
ents, such as anhydrous lactose, microcrystalline cellulose,
polyvinylpyrrolidone, stearic acid, colloidal anhydrous
silica, and gelatin.

[0257] (b) Controlled Release Dosage Forms

[0258] Active ingredients provided herein can be admin-
istered by controlled release means or by delivery devices
that are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
Examples include, but are not limited to, those described in
US Pat. Nos. 3,845,770; 3,916,899; 3,536,809; 3,598,123;
and U.S, Pat. Nos. 4,008,719, 5,674,533, 5,059,595, 5,591,
767, 5,120,548. 5,073,543, 5,639,476, 5,354,556, and5,733,
566, each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Such
dosage forms can be used to provide slow or controlled-
release of one or more active ingredients using, for example,
hydropropylmethyl cellulose, other polymer matrices, gels,
permeable membranes, osmotic systems, multilayer coat-
ings, microparticles, liposomes, microspheres, or a combi-
nation thereof to provide the desired release proﬁle in
varying proportions. Suitable controlled-release formula-
tions known to those of ordinary skill in the art, including
those described herein, can be readily selected for use with
the active agents provided herein, In one embodiment,
provided are single unit dosage forms suitable for oral
administration such as, but not limited to, tablets. capsules,
gelcaps, and caplets that are adapted for controlled-release.
[0259] In one embodiment, controlled-release pharmaceu-
tical products improve drug therapy over that achieved by
their non-controlled counterparts. In another embodiment,
the use of a controlled-release preparation in medical treat-
ment is characterized by a minimum of drug substance being
employed to cure or control the condition in a minimum
amount of time. Advantages of controlled-release formula-
tions include extended activity of the drug, reduced dosage
frequency, and increased patient compliance. In addition,
controlled-release formulations can be used to affect the
time of onset of action or other characteristics, such as blood
levels of the drug, and can thus alfect the occurrence of side
(e.g,, adverse) eifects.

[0260] In another embodiment, the controlled-release for-
mulations are designed to initially release an amount of drug
(active ingredient) that promptly produces the desired thera-
peutic or prophylactic effect, and gradually and continually
release of other amounts of drug to maintain this level of
therapeutic or prophylactic eﬁect over an extended period of
time. In one embodiment, in order to maintain a constant
level of drug in the body, the drug can be released from the
dosage form at a rate that will replace the amount of drug
being metabolized and excreted from the body. Controlled-
release of an active ingredient can be stimulated by various
conditions including, but not limited to, pH, temperature,
enzymes, water, or other physiological conditions or com-
pounds.

[0261] (c) Parenteral Dosage Forms

[0262] Parenteral dosage forms can be administered to
patients by various routes including, but not limited to,
subcutaneous, intravenous (including bolus injection), intra-
muscular, and intra-arterial. In some embodiments, admin-
istration of a parenteral dosage form bypasses patients’
US 2019/0031685 A1

art. See, e.g., Remington’s Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th
Ed, Mack Publishing, Easton Pa. (1990).

[0237] In one embodiment, pharmaceutical compositions
and dosage forms comprise one or more excipients. Suitable
excipients are well known to those skilled in the art of
pharmacy, and non-limiting examples of suitable excipients
are provided herein, Whether a particular excipient is suit-
able for incorporation into a pharmaceutical composition or
dosage form depends on a variety of factors well known in
the art including, but not limited to, the way in which the
dosage form will be administered to a patient. For example,
oral dosage forms such as tablets may contain excipients not
suited for use in parenteral dosage forms. The suitability of
a particular excipient may also depend on the speciﬁc active
ingredients in the dosage form. For example, the decompo-
sition of some active ingredients may be accelerated by
some excipients such as lactose, or when exposed to water.
Active ingredients that comprise primary or secondary
amines are particularly susceptible to such accelerated
decomposition. Consequently, provided are pharmaceutical
compositions and dosage forms that contain little, if any,
lactose other mono- or disaccharides. As used herein, the
term “lactose-free” means that the amount of lactose present,
if any. is insufﬁcient to substantially increase the degradation
rate of an active ingredient.

[0238] Lactose-free compositions can comprise excipients
that are well known in the art and are listed, for example, in
the US. Pharrnacopeia (USP) 25-N'F20 (2002). In general,
lactose-free compositions comprise active ingredients, a
binder/ﬁller, and a lubricant in pharmaceutically compatible
and pharmaceutically acceptable amounts. In one embodi-
ment, lactose-free dosage forms comprise active ingredients,
microcrystalline cellulose, pre-gelatinized starch, and mag-
nesium stearate.

[0239] Also provided are anhydrous pharmaceutical com-
positions and dosage forms comprising, active ingredients,
since water can facilitate the degradation of some com-
pounds, For example, the addition of water (e.g,, 5%) is
widely accepted in the pharmaceutical arts as a means of
simulating long-term storage in order to determine charac-
teristics such as shelf-life or the stability of formulations
over time. See, e.g., .Iens T. Carstensen, Drug Stability:
Principles & Practice, 2d. Ed, Marcel Dekker, NY, N.Y,,
1995, pp. 379-80, In effect, water and heat accelerate the
decomposition of some compounds. Thus, the eifect of
water on a formulation can be of great signiﬁcance since
moisture and/or humidity are commonly encountered during
manufacture, handling, packaging, storage, shipment, and
use of formulations.

[0240] Anhydrous pharmaceutical compositions and dos-
age forms can be prepared using anhydrous or low moisture
containing ingredients and low moisture or low humidity
conditions Pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms
that comprise lactose and at least one active ingredient that
comprises a primary or secondary amine are preferably
anhydrous if substantial contact with moisture and/or
humidity during manufacturing, packaging, and/ or storage is
expected.

[0241] An anhydrous pharmaceutical composition should
be prepared and stored such that its anhydrous nature is
maintained Accordingly, anhydrous compositions are, in
one embodiment, packaged using materials known to pre-
vent exposure to water such that they can be included in
suitable fonnulary kits. Examples of suitable packaging

Jan. 3], 2019

include, but are not limited to, hermetically sealed foils,
plastics, unit dose containers (e.g., vials), blister packs, and
strip packs.

[0242] Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions
and dosage forms that comprise one or more compounds that
reduce the rate by which an active ingredient will decom-
pose. Such compounds, which are referred to herein as
“stabilizers,” include, but are not limited to, antioxidants
such as ascorbic acid, pH buffers, or salt buffers.

[0243] Like the amounts and types of excipients, the
amounts and speciﬁc types of active ingredients in a dosage
form may dilfer depending on factors such as, but not
limited to, the route by which it is to be administered to
patients.

[0244] In other embodiments, dosage forms comprise the
second active ingredient. The speciﬁc amount of the second
active agent will depend on the speciﬁc agent used, the
diseases or disorders being treated or managed, and the
amount(s) of a compound provided herein, and any optional
additional active agents concurrently administered to the
patient.

[0245] (a) Oral Dosage Forms

[0246] Pharmaceutical compositions that are suitable for
oral administration can be provided as discrete dosage
forms, such as, but not limited to, tablets (e.g., chewable
tablets), caplets, capsules, and liquids (e.g., ﬂavored syrups).
Such dosage forms contain predetermined amounts of active
ingredients, and may be prepared by methods of pharmacy
well known to those skilled in the art. See generally,
Remington ’5 The Science and Practice of Pharmacy, let
Ed., Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (2005).

[0247] Oral dosage forms provided herein are prepared by
combining the active ingredients in an intimate admixture
with at least one excipient according to conventional phar-
maceutical compounding techniques. Excipients can take a
wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation
desired for administration. For example, excipients suitable
for use in oral liquid or aerosol dosage forms include, but are
not limited to, water, glycols, oils, alcohols, ﬂavoring agents,
preservatives, and coloring agents. Examples of excipients
suitable for use in solid oral dosage forms (e.g., powders,
tablets, capsules, and caplets) include, but are not limited to,
starches, sugars, micro-crystalline cellulose, diluents, granu-
lating agents, lubricants, binders, and disintegrating agents.
[0248] In one embodiment, oral dosage forms are tablets
or capsules, in which case solid excipients are employed, In
another embodiment, tablets can be coated by standard
aqueous or non-aqueous techniques. Such dosage forms can
be prepared by any of the methods of pharmacy. In general,
pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms are prepared
by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredients
with liquid carriers, ﬁnely divided solid carriers, or both, and
then shaping the product into the desired presentation if
necessary.

[0249] For example, a tablet can be prepared by compres-
sion or molding. Compressed tablets can be prepared by
compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredients in
a free-ﬂowing form such as powder or granules, optionally
mixed with an excipient. Molded tablets can be made by
molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered
compound moistened with an inert liquid diluent.

[0250] Examples of excipients that can be used in oral
dosage forms provided herein include, but are not limited to,
binders, ﬁllers, disintegrants, and lubricants. Binders suit-
US 2019/0031685 A1

a composition provided herein In one embodiment, pro-
vided herein is a method of treating, preventing, and/or
managing a CNS disorder or a neurological disorder, com-
prising administering to a subject a therapeutically or pro-
phylactically eﬂective amount of a compound provided
herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer
thereof In one embodiment, a method provided herein
further comprises administering to a subject a second active
agent.

[0167] In one embodiment, the disorders being treated,
prevented and/or managed using a method provided herein
include, but are not limited to, Parkinson’s disease, move-
ment disorder, ataxia, dystonia, essential tremor, Hunting-
ton’s disease, multiple system atrophy, myoclonus, progres-
sive supranuclear palsy, rett syndrome, secondary
parkinsonism, spasticity, tardive dyskinesia, Wilson’s dis-
ease, dyskinesia, or restless leg syndrome. In one embodi-
ment, without being limited by a particular theory, these
disorders can typically be treated with a dopamine agonist,
for example, a D2 agonist,

[0168] In one embodiment, the disorders being treated,
prevented and/or managed using a method provided herein
include, but are not limited to, schizophrenia, psychosis,
schizophrenia-related disorder, schizophrenia spectrum dis-
order. acute schizophrenia. chronic schizophrenia, NOS
schizophrenia. schizoaffective disorder, schizophreniform
disorder, paraphrenia, paranoid personality disorder, schiz-
oid personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder,
delusional disorder, a disease having a psychosis compo-
nent, psychotic disorder, brief psychotic disorder, Alzheim-
er’s psychosis, Parkinson’s psychosis, shared psychotic dis-
order, substance—induced psychotic disorder (e,g., cocaine,
opiate, alcohol, nicotine, or amphetamine), psychotic disor-
der due to a general medical condition, psychoaffective
disorder, aggression, delirium, excitative psychosis,
Tourette’s syndrome, manic disorder, organic psychosis, or
NOS psychosis. In one embodiment, without being limited
by a particular theory, these disorders can typically be
treated with a dopamine antagonist, for example, a D2
antagonisti

[0169] In one embodiment, the disorders being treated,
prevented and/or managed using a method provided herein
include, but are not limited to, affective disorder; depression;
a major depressive episode of the mild, moderate or severe
type; a manic or mixed mood episode; a hypomanic mood
episode; a depressive episode with atypical features; a
depressive episode with melancholic features; a depressive
episode with catatonic features; a mood episode with post-
partum onset; post-stroke depression; major depressive dis-
order; unipolar depression; treatment resistant depression;
dysthymic disorder; minor depressive disorder; premen-
strual dysphoric disorder; post-psychotic depressive disor-
der of schizophrenia; a major depressive disorder superim-
posed on a psychotic disorder (e.g,, delusional disorder or
schizophrenia); a bipolar disorder; bipolar I disorder; bipolar
II disorder; cyclothymic disorder; seasonal aﬁective disor-
der; attention deﬁcit disorder (ADD); or attention deﬁcit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). In one embodiment, with-
out being limited by a particular theory, these disorders can
typically be treated with a dopamine agonist or partial
agonist, for example, a D2 agonist or partial agonist,

[0170] In one embodiment, the disorders being treated,
prevented and/or managed using a method provided herein
include, but are not limited to, addiction or substance abuse

Jan. 31, 2019

or dependency (e.g,, alcohol, nicotine, amphetamine,
cocaine, or opiate addiction). In one embodiment, without
being limited by a particular theory, these disorders can
typically be treated with a dopamine antagonist or partial
agonist, for example, a D2 antagonist or partial agonist.

[0171] In one embodiment, the disorders being treated,
prevented and/or managed using a method provided herein
include, but are not limited to, posttraumatic stress disorder,
behavior disorder, neurodegenerative disease, Alzheimer's
disease, dementia, mood disorder, anxiety, obsessive-com-
pulsive disorder, vertigo, pain, neuropathic pain, sensitiza-
tion accompanying neuropathic pain, inﬂammatory pain,
ﬁbromyalgia, migraine, cognitive disorder, cognitive
impairment, cognitive impairment associated with schizo-
phrenia, cognitive deﬁcit in Alzheimer’s disease. cognitive
deﬁcit in Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, sleep dis-
order, eating disorder, or autism.

[0172] In one embodiment, the disorder being treated,
prevented and/or managed using a method provided herein
is a disorder known in the art that affects the central nervous
system (e.g., a CNS disorder). In one embodiment, the
disorder being treatec, prevented and/or managed using a
method provided herein is a disorder known in the art that
affects the neurological system (e,g., a neurological disor-
der),

[0173] In one emboc iment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing Parkinson’s disease,
comprising administering a compound provided herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or
a pharmaceutical com osition provided herein, to a subject
in need thereof.

[0174] In one emboc iment, provided herein is a metho of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a movement disor er,
comprising administering a compound provided herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or
a pharmaceutical com Josition provided herein, to a subject
in need thereof.

[0175] In one emboc iment, provided herein is a methoc of
treating, preventing, and/or managing Parkinson’s disease or
a movement disorder, including but not limited to, ataxia,
dystonia, essential tremor, Huntington’s disease, multiple
system atrophy, myoc onus, progressive supranuclear pa sy,
rett syndrome, seconcary parkinsonism, spasticity, tardive
dyskinesia, Wilson’s disease, dyskinesia, and restless eg
syndrome, comprising administering a compound provided
herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer
thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition provided herein, to
a subject in need thereof,

[0176] In one embodiment, provided herein is a methoc of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a movement disorcer,
including but not limited to, Parkinson’s disease and Hun-
tington’s disease, comprising administering to a subject an
effective amount of a compound provided herein In one
embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating, pre-
venting, and/or managing a movement disorder, including
but not limited to, Parkinson's disease, L—dopa induced
dyskinesia, peak dose dyskinesia, restless leg syndrome, and
Huntington’s disease, comprising administering to a subject
an effective amount of a compound provided herein In one
embodiment, the movement disorders provided herein that
can be treated, prevented, and/or managed using a com-
pound or a pharmaceutical composition provided herein
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0211] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing dementia, comprising
administering to a subject an eifective amount of a com-
pound provided herein.

[0212] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a neurologic disorder,
including but not limited to, dementia, Alzheimer’s disease,
multi-infarct dementia, alcoholic dementia, drug-related
dementia, dementia associated with intracranial tumors,
dementia associated With cerebral trauma, dementia associ-
ated with Huntington’s disease, dementia associated with
Parkinson’s disease, AIDS-related dementia, delirium,
anmestic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, mental
retardation, learning disorder, reading disorder, mathematics
disorder, disorder of written expression, attention-deﬁcit-
hyperactivity disorder, age-related cognitive decline, and
Fronto temporal dementia, comprising administering to a
subject an eifective amount of a compound provided herein,
[0213] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing vertigo, comprising
administering to a subject an eifective amount of a com-
pound provided herein.

[0214] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing multiple sclerosis,
sleep disorder, eating disorder, or autism, comprising admin-
istering to a subject an elfective amount of a compound
provided herein.

[0215] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing pain, neuropathic
pain, sensitization accompanying neuropathic pain, inﬂam-
matory pain, migraine or ﬁbromyalgia, comprising admin-
istering to a subject an effective amount of a compound
provided herein.

[0216] Neuropathic pain includes, without limitation, post
herpetic (or post-shingles) neuralgia, reﬂex sympathetic
dystrophy/causalgia or nerve trauma, phantom limb pain,
carpal tunnel syndrome, and peripheral neuropathy (such as
diabetic neuropathy or neuropathy arising from chronic
alcohol use).

[0217] In some embodiments, the neurological disorder
provided herein is: depression (e.g., major depressive dis-
order, bipolar disorder, unipolar disorder, treatment resistant
depression, dysthymia, and seasonal affective disorder);
cognitive deﬁcits; ﬁbromyalgia; pain (e.g,, neuropathic
pain); sleep related disorders (e.g,, sleep apnea, insomnia,
narcolepsy, cataplexy) including those sleep disorders which
are produced by psychiatric conditions; chronic fatigue
syndrome; attention deﬁcit disorder (ADD); attention deﬁcit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD); restless leg syndrome;
schizophrenia; anxieties (e.g,, general anxiety disorder,
social anxiety disorder, panic disorder); obsessive compul-
sive disorder; posttraumatic stress disorder; seasonal aﬁec-
tive disorder (SAD); premenstrual dysphoria; post-meno-
pausal vasomotor symptoms (e.g., hot ﬂashes, night sweats);
neurodegenerative disease (cg. Parkinson’s disease,
Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis);
manic conditions; dysthymic disorder; cyclothymic disor-
der; and substance abuse or dependency (egr, cocaine
addiction, nicotine addiction, or other drug addiction),
[0218] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing schizophrenia, psy-
chosis, or depression, comprising administering to a subject
an eﬂective amount of a compound provided herein. In one
embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating, pre-

Jan. 3], 2019

venting, and/or managing a neurologic disorder, including
but not limited to, Parkinson’s disease or movement disor-
der, comprising administering to a subject an eﬁ'ective
amount of a compound provided herein,

[0219] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a disorder provided
herein (e.g,, a CNS disorder or a neurological disorder), in
a subject, such as a mammal, e,g,, human, rodent (e.gr, mice
and rats), cat, dog, and non-human primate, among others.
In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of treating,
preventing, and/or ameliorating one or more symptoms
associated with a disorder provided herein (e,g., a CNS
disorder or a neurological disorder), in a subject, such as a
mammal, e,g., human, rodent (e.g,, mice and rats), cat, dog,
and non-human primate, among others. In one embodiment,
the method provided herein comprises contacting a com-
pound provided herein With a G-protein coupled receptor. In
one embodiment, the method comprises contacting a com-
pound provided herein with a D2 recepton

[0220] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
administering a compound provided herein in a disease
model that is known in the art, In one embodiment, the
disease model is an animal model. In one embodiment,
provided herein is a method of administering the compound
provided herein in an animal model that is predictive of
efﬁcacy in the treatment of certain diseases in a human, The
method comprises administering a compound provided
herein in a subject. In one embodiment, the method com-
prises administering to a subject a therapeutically eﬁective
amount of a compound provided herein, or a phannaceuti-
cally acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, In one embodi-
ment, the method comprises treatment of a test subject (e,g.,
a mice or rat) with a compound provided herein, In one
embodiment, the method comprises treatment of a test
subject (e.g., a mice or rat) with a compound provided herein
as well as a reference compound. In one embodiment, the in
vivo activity of the compound provided herein is dose
dependent, In one embodiment, Without being limited to a
particular theory, the method provided herein comprises
administering an elfective amount of a compound provided
herein to modulate the activity of one or more signaling
pathways utilized by a D2 receptor (erg, CAMP and/or
B-arrestin) in a subject.

[0221] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing various disorders,
including, but not limited to, a CNS disorder or a neuro-
logical disorder, wherein the method comprises administer-
ing to a subject a therapeutically or prophylactically eifec-
tive amount of a composition or a compound provided
herein. In one embodiment, the subject is a human, In one
embodiment, the subject is an animal, In one embodiment,
the compounds provided herein are highly brain penetrable
in the subject. In certain embodiments, the eﬁicacious con-
centration of the compounds provided herein is less than 10
nM, less than 100 nM, less than 1 uM, less than 10 pM, less
than 100 pM, or less than 1 mM. In one embodiment, the
compound’s activity may be assessed in various art-recog-
nized animal models as described herein elsewhere or
known in the literature,

[0222] In one embodiment, without being limited by a
particular theory, the treatment, prevention, and/or manage-
ment is done by administering a compound provided herein
that has shown in vivo eﬁicacy in an animal model predic-
tive of eﬁicacy in humans.
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0151] In one embodiment, a compound of formula (I)
may also be prepared following Scheme 11. Compound (II-a)
may be purchased from a commercial source, prepared
following literature procedures, or prepared as prescribed
herein. Compound (II-a) is treated with an alkylating reagent
(II-b) in the presence of a base, such as cesium carbonate, to
generate (II-c), which is reacted with an amine (I-d) in the
presence of a base, such as potassium carbonate, to render a
compound of formula (I). Optionally, further organic trans-
formations may convert R, R1, R2, R3, R4 and/or R5 to other
suitable embodiments of R, R2, R3, R4 and/or R5 to provide
additional embodiments of a compound of formula (I).
[0152] In certain embodiments, the compounds provided
herein are prepared as a mixture of two or more stereoiso-
mers or diastereoisomers. In one embodiment, the stereoi-
somers or diastereoisomers are separated using techniques
known to those skilled in the art, including but not limited
to, chiral column chromatography and chiral resolution by
forming a salt with a suitable chiral counterion. In certain
embodiments, the compounds provided herein are prepared
following one or more stereoselective reaction(s). In some
embodiment, the compounds provided herein are prepared
as a substantially pure stereoisomer.

D. Methods of Use

[0153] 1. Modulation of Receptor Activity

[0154] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
binding a compound provided herein to a dopamine recep-
tor, such as, a D2 receptor. The method comprises contacting
the dopamine receptor with a compound provided herein. In
one embodiment, the binding to dopamine receptor is
assessed using an in vitro binding assay, such as those
known in the art.

[0155] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
modulating (e.g., inhibiting or augmenting) the activity of a
dopamine receptor, such as, a D2 receptor. In one embodi-
ment, provided herein is a method of reducing the activity of
a dopamine receptor, such as, a D2 receptor (e.g., partially
or fully antagonizing). In one embodiment, provided herein
is a method of incrwsing the activity of a dopamine receptor,
such as, a D2 receptor (e.g., partially or fully agonizing). In
one embodiment, the method comprises contacting a dop-
amine receptor, such as, a D2 receptor, with a compound
provided herein, in vitro or in vivo. In one embodiment, the
dopamine receptor, such as, a D2 receptor, is contacted by a
compound provided herein by administering to a subject a
therapeutically effective amount of the compound provided
herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer
thereof. The subject may be a human. In one embodiment,
the dopamine receptor is D2 receptor.

[0156] In other embodiments, the compound provided
herein reduces the activity of a dopamine receptor, such as,
a D2 receptor. Reduction of receptor activity may be mea-
sured using assays known in the art. In some embodiments,
the activity of the receptor is reduced by about 1%, about
5%, about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about
50%, about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about
95%, about 99% or more than about 99%, as compared with
activity without contacting the receptor with a compound
provided herein (e.g., vehicle condition). In one embodi-
ment, the reduction of receptor activity is dose dependent. In
other embodiments, the compound provided herein
increases the activity of a dopamine receptor, such as, a D2
receptor. Increase of receptor activity may be measured

Jan. 31, 2019

using assays known in the art. In some embodiments, the
activity of the receptor is increased by about 1%, about 5%,
about 10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%,
about 60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%,
about 99% or more than about 99%, as compared with
activity without contacting the receptor with a compound
provided herein (e.g., vehicle condition). In one embodi-
ment, the increase of receptor activity is dose dependent.
Exemplary assay methods include, but are not limited to, in
vitro binding assays and in vitro functional assays. In one
embodiment, the functional assay utilizes an appropriate
cell-line expressing a desired dopamine receptor, such as, a
D2 receptor. In one embodiment, the functional assay uti-
lizes a receptor puriﬁed following expression using an
appropriate recombinant system. In one embodiment, inhi-
bition of receptor activity may be assessed using a CAMP
assay, for example, a ﬂuorescent assay, utilizing a Fluores-
cein-labeled cAMP/cGMP substrate or a Homogeneous-
Time-Resolved-Fluorescence (I’ITRF)-based assay. In one
embodiment, the functional assay utilizes synaptosomes
isolated from brain tissue of an appropriate organism. In one
embodiment, the functional assay utilizes primary neuronal
cultures prepared from brain tissue of an appropriate organ-
ism. In one embodiment, the assay is carried out in vivo and
involves treatment of a test subject (e.g., a rodent) with a
compound provided herein. In one embodiment, a test
subject is treated with a reference compound or vehicle, as
positive or negative controls. In one embodiment, the assay
is followed by isolation of brain tissue and ex vivo analysis
of substrate concentration (e.g., cAMP or cGMP) in the
brain tissue. In one embodiment, the assay is followed by
isolation of brain microdialysates and ex vivo analysis of
substrate concentration (e.g., CAMP or cGMP) in the
microdialysates.

[0157] In certain embodiments, provided herein are meth-
ods of reducing the activity of a dopamine receptor, such as,
a D2 receptor, in a subject (e.g., human) comprising admin-
istering to the subject an effective amount of a compound
provided herein. In some embodiments, the activity of the
receptor is reduced by about 1%, about 5%, about 10%,
about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about 60%,
about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about 99%,
or more than about 99%, when measured using an assay
described herein elsewhere.

[0158] In certain embodiments, provided herein are meth-
ods of increasing the activity of a dopamine receptor, such
as, a D2 receptor, in a subject (e.g., human) comprising
administering to the subject an effective amount of a com-
pound provided herein. In some embodiments, the activity
of the receptor is increased by about 1%, about 5%, about
10%, about 20%, about 30%, about 40%, about 50%, about
60%, about 70%, about 80%, about 90%, about 95%, about
99%, or more than about 99%, when measured using an
assay described herein elsewhere.

[0159] In one embodiment, without being limited to any
particular theory, activation of a D2 receptor affects the
activity of one or two or more pathways, for example, the
cAMP pathway and/or the B-arrestin pathway. For instance,
agonizing the D2 receptor results in a decrease in cAMP
production and also an increase in the recruitment and
activation of [S-arrestin. Antagonizing the D2 receptor
blocks the ability of an agonist, for example, dopamine, to
decrease cAMP production and to increase B-arrestin
recruitment. In one embodiment, certain compounds dem-
US 2019/0031685 A1

:2
O
2/
m2:
0

wherein Ring Ar is defined herein elsewhere. In one embodi-
ment, Ring A: is a benzo, pyrazolo, thieno, pyrimido,
pyrazino, thiazoln, imidazolo, furano, or pyridazino ring,
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky-
lamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuoro, (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substi-
tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl,
and optionally substituted pyridyl. In one embodiment, Ring
Ar is an optionally substituted benzo ring, In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazolo ring, In
one embodiment, Ring AI is a pyrazolo ring, optionally
substituted with optionally substituted phenyl or optionally
substituted pyridyl, In one embodiment, Ring AI is an
optionally substituted thieno ring, In one embodiment, Ring
Ar is an optionally substituted pyrimido ring. In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazino ring, In
one embodiment, Ring AI is an optionally substituted thi-
azolo ring. In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally
substituted imidazolo ring, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is
an optionally substituted furano ring. In one embodiment,
Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyridazino ring In one
embodiment, the optional substituents include, but are not
limited to, halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)
alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and
(C1-C3)a1koxyl optionally substituted with one or more
ﬂuoro (e,g,, F, Cl, CN, Me, CF3, OMe, or OCFB), In other
embodiments, the optional substituents include, but are not
limited to, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally
substituted pyridyl (eg, phenyl or pyridyl).

[0131] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

\ \
N\/\/\ I /
o N N o,
l

S \ \
\ I N I /
\/\/\0 N N 0

H

m P \
s N\/\/\O N/ N O,

H

”03 m
NW\O N/ 1T 0‘
H

18

b0 m

N\/\/\0 N/ If 0
H

N\/\/\0 N/ N 0

-continued

Jan. 3], 2019

|
H

N\/\/\O N/ N 0’

am I \ \
N
No N/ N 0

Cl

CF3

CN

CF;

CN

|
H

|
H
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019

1 9
N N -continued \ \ -continued
/ \ N’ \ I / \
_ / N\/\/\ / I I
0 N N o. N /
II s \/\/\0 N N 0‘
|
H
[0132] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound /0 \
of formula (IV-d), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or I
stereoisomer thereof, N\/\/\ /
0 N If 0,
H

(IVrd)

FOG m
/ I N\/\/\0 N/ N o,
I
NC \
wherein Ring Ar is deﬁned herein elsewhere In one embodi- mw I /
0 N N O,

ment, Ring Ar is a benzo, pyrazolo, thieno, pyrimido,
pyrazino, thiazolo, imidazolo, furano, or pyridazino ring, H
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three

substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky- FJC \
lamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted I
with one or more ﬂuom, (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substi- N\/\/\O N/ N

tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl, |
and optionally substituted pyridyl. In one embodiment, Ring

Ar is an optionally substituted benzo ring, In one embodi- C1 \
ment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazolo ring, In I

one embodiment, Ring AI is a pyrazolo ring. optionally N\/\/\ /
substituted with optionally substituted phenyl or optionally O I >
substituted pyridyl, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an H
optionally substituted thieno ring, In one embodiment, Ring Cl

Ar is an optionally substituted pyrimido ring. In one embodi-

ment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazino ring, In \

one embodiment. Ring AI is an optionally substituted thi- I

azolo ring. In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally

Z
0%
z\
p

substituted imidazolo ring, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is N
an optionally substituted furano ring. In one embodiment, I!I
Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyridazino ring In one
embodiment, the optional substituents include, but are not CFB
limited to, halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)
alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and \
(C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more , I
ﬂuoro (e.g,, F, Cl, CN, Me, CF3, OMe, or OCFS). In other N\/\/\0 N/ N 0
embodiments, the optional substituents include, but are not I '
limited to, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally H
substituted pyridyl (e,g,, phenyl or pyridyl). CN
[0133] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:
| \
\ N\/\/\ /
I o N T o,
N
\/\/\O N/ I] o, H
H I \
S
\ N\/\/\ /
\ I I 0 N N o,
N\/\/\ / I
O N N 0, CF; H
US 2019/0031685 A1
25

onstrate only partial activity and are termed partial agonists.
Partial agonists can block the elfects of an agonist, with a net
activity equivalent to the partial agonist’s eiﬁcacy (for
example, a partial agonist with a 60% maximal eﬂect, will
inhibit the response to a full agonist by 40%). Modulation of
dopamine D2 signaling has therapeutic values. Without
being limited to any particular theory, stimulating dopamine
receptors often has therapeutic use in movement disorders,
such as Parkinson's disease, whereas, anti-psychotic drugs
typically are antagonists of the D2 receptor Without being
limited to any particular theory, antagonizing the D2-B-
arrestin interaction is beneﬁcial for anti-psychotic activity of
drugs, such as olanzapine, risperidone, and the like. Without
being limited to any particular theory, full agonists or high
eﬂicacy (e.g., greater than about 75%) agonists are more
suitable as anti-Parkinson’s medications. For example,
pramipexole and ropinirole are used clinically and demon-
strate an Em, of at least about 90% in the assays provided
herein. Aripiprazole (i.e., 7-{4-[4-(2,3-dichloroplienyl)pip-
erazin-l -yl]butoxy}-3,4-dihyd.roquinolin-2(lH)-one), a par-
tial D2 agonist, is clinically eﬁicacious in schizophrenia The
efﬁcacy of partial agonists is dependent on assay conditions,
such as receptor expression levels and host cell-line, neces-
sitating the use of caution when comparing data from
different sources. In the assays provided herein, aripiprazole
has Em” and 1m>6 values of approximately about 40% and
about 50% in the cAMP or ﬁ-arrestin agonist and antagonist
assays, respectively, suggesting that a compound provided
herein typically can have at least about 40% activity in the
present agonist and antagonist assays to be effective treat-
ments for schizophrenia and/or psychosis.

[0160] In one embodiment, a compound provided herein
has an Em>6 value of between about 50% and about 75% in
a cAMP agonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an E"WC value of between about 40%
and about 75% in a CAMP agonist assay. In one embodi-
ment, a compound provided herein has an Emu value of
between about 25% and about 75% in a cAMP agonist assay.
In one embodiment, a compound provided herein has an
Em“ value of between about 10% and about 75% in a cAMP
agonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound provided
herein has an Emu value of greater than about 75% in a
cAMP agonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an Em>6 value of greater than about 90%
in a cAMP agonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an Em” value of less than about 10% in

a CAMP agonist assay.

[0161] In one embodiment, a compound provided herein
has an Em, value of between about 50% and about 75% in
a B-arrestin agonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an Em” value of between about 40%
and about 75% in a B-arrestin agonist assay. In one embodi-
ment, a compound provided herein has an E"WC value of
between about 25% and about 75% in a [3-arrestin agonist
assay. In one embodiment, a compound provided herein has
an Em, value of between about 10% and about 75% in a
B-arrestin agonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an Em>6 value of greater than about 75%
in a [3-arrestin agonist assay. In one embodiment, a com-
pound provided herein has an Em” value of greater than
about 90% in a [3-arrestin agonist assay. In one embodiment,
a compound provided herein has an Em,r value of less than
about 10% in a [i-arrestin agonist assay.

Jan. 31, 2019
[0162] In one embodiment, a compound provided herein
has an I value of between about 50% and about 75% in

max

a cAMP antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an IMX value of between about 40% and
about 75% in a cAMP antagonist assay. In one embodiment,
a compound provided herein has an Imax value of between
about 25% and about 75% in a cAMP antagonist assay. In
one embodiment, a compound provided herein has an 1m“
value of between about 10% and about 75% in a cAMP
antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound provided
herein has an IMX value of greater than about 75% in a
cAMP antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound
provided herein has an Imax value of greater than about 90%
in a cAMP antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a com-
pound provided herein has an Imax value of less than about

10% in a cAMP antagonist assay.

[0163] In one embodiment, a compound provided herein
has an 1m“ value of between about 50% and about 75% in
a ﬁ-arrestin antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a com-
pound provided herein has an 1mm value of between about
40% and about 75% in a [S-arrestin antagonist assay. In one
embodiment, a compound provided herein has an 1m” value
of between about 25% and about 75% in a B-arrestin
antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a compound provided
herein has an 1,,” value of between about 10% and about
75% in a B-arrestin antagonist assay. In one embodiment, a
compound provided herein has an 1m” value of greater than
about 75% in a B-arrestin antagonist assay. In one embodi-
ment, a compound provided herein has an 1",” value of
greater than about 90% in a B-arrestin antagonist assay. In
one embodiment, a compound provided herein has an 1“,,
value of less than about 10% in a [S-arrestin antagonist assay.

[0164] Modulation of receptor activity can be shown, for
example, by performing various in vitro functional assays
utilizing a cell type which expresses a certain type of
receptor, such as a dopamine receptor, e.g., D2 receptor. In
some embodiments, the compounds provided herein modu-
late the receptor activity in a dose-dependent manner, with
an EC,0 or ICso of, for example, between about 0.1 nM and
about 10 pM, between about 1 nM and about 1 pM, between
about 1 nM and about 500 nM, and between about 1 nM and
about 100 nM, in a functional assay, such as those described
herein. In one embodiment, the ECSC or IC50 is less than
about 0.01 nM, less than about 0.1 nM, less than about 1 nM,
less than about 3 nM, less than about 10 nM, less than about
30 nM, less than about 100 nM, less than about 300 nM, less
than about 1000 nM, less than about 3000 nM, or less than
about 10000 nM. In one embodiment, the EC50 or IC50 is
about 0.01 nM, about 0.1 nM, about 1 nM, about 3 nM,
about 10 nM, about 30 nM, about 100 nM, about 300 nM,
about 1000 nM, about 3000 nM, or about 10000 nM.
[0165] 2. Treatment, Prevention, and/or Management of
Disorders

[0166] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method
for the treatment, prevention, and/or management of various
disorders, including a CNS disorder or a neurological dis-
order, comprising administering a compound provided
herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer
thereof, or a composition provided herein. In one embodi-
ment, provided herein is a method for the treatment, pre-
vention, and/or amelioration of one or more symptoms of a
disorder (e.g., a CNS disorder or a neurological disorder),
comprising administering a compound provided herein, or a
phannaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or
US 2019/0031685 A1
31

[0223] In some embodiments, the compounds provided
herein are active in at least one model, which can be used to
measure the activity of the compounds and estimate their
eﬂicacy in treating a CNS disorder or a neurological disor-
der. For example, the compounds provided herein are active
in at least one model for schizophrenia, psychosis, Parkin-
son’s disease, movement disorder, aﬁective disorder,
depression, addiction, or substance abuse or dependency.
The compounds are active when they induce a desired
response in the animal (e.g., mice) by a statistically signiﬁ-
cant amount compared to vehicle-treated animals.

[0224] In other embodiments, provided herein is a method
of eﬁecting a therapeutic eﬂect as described herein else-
where. The method comprises administering to a subject
(e.g., a mammal) a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound or a composition provided herein. The particular
therapeutic etfects may be measured using any model sys-
tem known in the art and described herein, such as those
involving an animal model of a disease.

[0225] In one embodiment, the compounds provided
herein are useful to treat, prevent, and/or manage two or
more conditions/disorders, which are co-morbid, such as
psychosis and depression.

[0226] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
using the compounds provided herein as psycho-stimulants,
which may have fewer abuse liabilities than those generally
associated with other classes of psycho-stimulants.

[0227] In one embodiment, the compounds provided
herein treat, prevent, and/0r manage a CNS disorder or a
neurological disorder, without causing addiction to said
compounds. In one embodiment, the compounds described
herein treat, prevent, and/or manage a central nervous dis-
order, while reducing undesirable side eﬁects.

[0228] Any suitable route of administration can be
employed for providing the patient with a therapeutically or
prophylactically eﬂective dose of an active ingredient. For
example, oral, mucosal (e.g., nasal, sublingual, buccal, rec-
tal, vaginal), parenteral (e.g., intravenous, intramuscular),
transdermal. and subcutaneous routes can be employed.
Exemplary routes of administration include oral, transder-
mal, and mucosal. Suitable dosage forms for such routes
include, but are not limited to, transdermal patches, oph-
thalmic solutions, sprays, and aerosols. Transdermal com-
positions can also take the form of creams, lotions, and/or
emulsions, which can be included in an appropriate adhesive
for application to the skin or can be included in a transder-
mal patch of the matrix or reservoir type as are conventional
in the art for this purpose. An exemplary transdermal dosage
form is a “reservoir type” or “matrix type” patch, which is
applied to the skin and worn for a speciﬁc period of time to
permit the penetration of a desired amount of active ingre-
dient. The patch can be replaced with a fresh patch when
necessary to provide constant administration of the active
ingredient to the patient.

[0229] The amount to be administered to a patient to treat,
prevent, and/or manage the disorders described herein will
depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of the
particular compound employed, or the ester, salt or amide
thereof, the route of administration, the time of administra-
tion, the rate of excretion or metabolism of the particular
compound being employed, the duration of the treatment,
other drugs, compounds and/or materials used in combina-
tion with the particular compound employed, the age, sex,

Jan. 3], 2019

weight, condition, general health and prior medical history
of the patient being treated, and like factors well known in
the medical arts.

[0230] A physician or veterinarian having ordinary skill in
the art can readily determine and prescribe the effective
amount required. For example, the physician or veterinarian
could start doses of the compounds employed at levels lower
than that required in order to achieve the desired therapeutic

eﬁect and gradually increase the dosage until the desired
effect is achieved.

[0231] In general, a suitable daily dose of a compound
provided herein will be that amount of the compound which
is the lowest dose eifective to produce a therapeutic or
prophylactic effect. Such an eﬁective dose will generally
depend upon the factors described above. The dosage may
be formulated as a single or multiple unit dosage formula-
tion. In one embodiment, the compound is given in single or
divided doses per day.

[0232] 3. Pharmaceutical Compositions and Dosage
Forms

[0233] Pharmaceutical compositions can be used in the
preparation of individual, single unit dosage forms. Phar-
maceutical compositions and dosage forms provided herein
comprise a compound provided herein, or a pharmaceuti-
cally acceptable salt, solvate, stereoisomer, clathrate, or
prodrug thereof. Pharmaceutical compositions and dosage
forms can further comprise one or more excipients.

[0234] Pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms
provided herein can also comprise one or more additional
active ingredients (e.g., a second active agent provided
herein elsewhere). Examples of optional second, or addi-
tional, active ingredients are also disclosed herein.

[0235] Single unit dosage forms provided herein are suit-
able for oral, mucosal (e.g., nasal, sublingual, vaginal,
buccal, or rectal), parenteral (e.g., subcutaneous, intrave-
nous, bolus injection, intramuscular, or intra-arterial), topi-
cal (e.g., eye drops or other ophthalmic preparations), trans-
dermal or transcutaneous administration to a patient.
Examples of dosage forms include, but are not limited to:
tablets; caplets; capsules, such as soft elastic gelatin cap-
sules; cachets; troches; lozenges; dispersions; suppositories;
powders; aerosols (e.g., nasal sprays or inhalers); gels;
liquid dosage forms suitable for oral or mucosal adminis-
tration to a patient, including suspensions (e.g., aqueous or
non-aqueous liquid suspensions, oil-in-water emulsions, or a
water-in-oil liquid emulsions), solutions, and elixirs; liquid
dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a
patient; eye drops or other ophthalmic preparations suitable
for topical administration; and sterile solids (e.g., crystalline
or amorphous solids) that can be reconstituted to provide
liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to
a patient.

[0236] The composition, shape, and type of dosage forms
will typically vary depending on their use. For example, a
dosage form used in the acute treatment of a disease may
contain larger amounts of one or more of the active ingre-
dients it comprises than a dosage form used in the chronic
treatment of the same disease. Similarly, a parenteral dosage
form may contain smaller amounts of one or more of the
active ingredients it comprises than an oral dosage form
used to treat the same disease. These and other ways in
which speciﬁc dosage forms are used will vary from one
another and will be readily apparent to those skilled in the
US 2019/0031685 A1

(See, eg, Still et all, J. Org Chem, 43: 2923 (1978)) was
performed using silica gel 60 (Merck Art 9385) or various
MPLC systems.

[0278] The compound structures in the examples below
were conﬁrmed by one or more of the following methods:
proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, mass spectros-
copy, elemental microanalysis, and melting point. Proton
magnetic resonance (1H NMR) spectra were determined
using a NMR spectrometer operating at a certain ﬁeld
strength. Chemical shifts are reported in parts per million
(ppm, 5) downﬁeld from an internal standard, such as TMS.
Alternatively, 1H NMR spectra were referenced to signals
from residual protons in deuterated solvents as follows:
CDC13:7.25 ppm; DMSO-d6:2.49 ppm; C5D6:7.16 ppm;
CD3OD:3.30 ppm. Peak multiplicities are designated as
follows: 5, singlet; d, doublet; dd, doublet of doublets; t,
triplet; dt, doublet of triplets; q, quartet; br, broadened; and
m, multiplet, Coupling constants are given in Hertz (Hz).

Mass spectra (MS) data were obtained using a mass spec-
trometer with APCI or ESI ionization.

1, Synthesis of 6-(4-(4—(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piper-
azin-1-yl)butoxy)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine
(Compound 1)

 

[0279]
or N\ c1
1)LDA
2)DMF
/
171
C1 N\ or H0
I \/\OH
p-methylbenzenesulfonic acid
/ CHO
1-2
C1 N Cl
\
I H2NNH2H20
/ 0
DJ
13
H
Cl N\ N\
I N PMBCI
/ /
r4
PMB
Cl N\ N /\/\/OH
I \ HO
/ / NaH
1-5
/\/\/O N\ {1MB
HO I \N TsCl
/ KOH'
/
1-5

Jan. 31, 2019

-continued

/\/\/O N N
C] (\N \ TFA
| N —»
Cl N

Compound 1

(a) Synthesis of 2,6-dichloronicotinaldehyde (1-2)

[0280] Lithium diisopropylamide (2 M, 20.5 mL, 4053
mmol, 12 eq.) was added into anhydrous tetrahydrofuran
(20 mL) at —78° C, Compound 1-1 (5.0 g, 33.78 mmol, 1.0
eq.) in tetrahydrofuran (20 mL) was added dropwise over 1
h at —78° C. N,N-Dimethylformamide (715 g, 101.35 mmol,
30 eq.) was added into the solution, and the mixture was
stirred for another 2 h at —78° C. Saturated ammonium
chloride (60 mL) was added to the mixture to quench the
reaction. The solution was evaporated to remove tetrahy-
drofuran and extracted with ethyl acetate (3x50 mL), The
organic layer was collected, dried over sodium sulfate, and
evaporated to give the crude product, which was puriﬁed by
silica gel column chromatography (100% petroleum ether to
ethyl acetatezpetroleum ether:1:10) to give compound 1-2
as a white solid (35 g, yield: 59%). MS (ESI) m/z 176.0
[M+H]*.

(b) Synthesis of 2,6-dichloro-3-(1,3-dioxolan-2-yl)
pyridine (1-3)

[0281] To a solution ofcompound 1-2 (3.5 g, 0.02 mo], 10
eq.) in toluene (80 mL) was added ethane-1,2-diol (2.5 g,
0.04 mol, 2.0 eq.) and p-methylbenzenesulfonic acid (0.76 g,
4 mmol, 02 eq.). The mixture was heated to reﬂux for 1 h.
Then the mixture was evaporated and puriﬁed by silica gel
column chromatography (petroleum et.her:et.hy1 acetate:5: 1)
to give compound 1-3 as a white solid (39 g, yield: 89%).
MS (ESI) m/z 220[M+H]*.

(c) Synthesis of diethyl 6-chloro-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-
b]pyridine (1 -4)

[0282] To a solution ofcompound 1-3 (3.0 g, 13.70 mmol,
10 eq) in butan—l-ol (8 mL) was added hydrazine hydrate
(1.48 g, 24.66 mmol, 1.8 eq), The mixture was heated to
150° C. and stirred for 1 h in a sealed tube. Aﬁer cooling, the
mixture was ﬁltered and evaporated to give crude product,
which was puriﬁed by silica gel column chromatography
(dichloromethanezmethanol:10: 1) to provide compound 1-4
as a yellow solid (600 mg, yield: 28.6%). MS (ESI) m/z
154[M+H]*.
US 2019/0031685 A1
\ / N
I
\N/NH, o, HNJ.

In one embodiment, R1 is iNHCO(C,-C3)alkyl (e.g,,
iNHCOMe or iNHCOEt), In one embodiment, R1 is
iNHS(O)2(Cl-C3)alkyl (e.g., iNHS(O)2Me or iNHS
(0)2Et). In one embodiment, R1 is

\

\v / NH.
r

In one embodiment, R1 is

J!

n one embodiment, Ring Ar is a benzo ring, optionally
substituted with one to three substituents, independently
selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-
C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and
(C1-C3)a1koxyl optionally substituted with one or more
iuoro (e,g,, F or C1),

[0137] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

33 (1°
\ N\/\/\O \N gk

 

a fl 0
\ N\/\/\0 \N §J\/
/ /
30 I
\ N\/\/\O \N N/S\
H v
/ /
| | °\\//°
\ N\/\/\O \N N/S\/
H ,
CO / I
N\/\/\O \N \
N‘NH,

Jan.3l,2019
21

-continued

Cl
63 / '
N\/\/\O \N
/
N\/\/\ \ I
O N

[0138] In one embodiment, provided herein is a com-
pound, having the following structure:

@MO

[0139] Any ofthe combinations ofR‘, R2, R3, R4, R5, R5,
R7, R3, R10, R”, X, Y, Q, W, Ring Ar, and n are encom-
passed by this disclosure and speciﬁcally provided herein,

[0140] It should be noted that if there is a discrepancy
between a depicted structure and a chemical name given that
structure, the depicted structure is to be accorded more
weight, In addition, if the stereochemistry of a structure or
a portion of a structure is not indicated with, for example,
bold or dashed lines, the structure or portion of the structure
is to be interpreted as encompassing all stereoisomers of it.
Where the compound provided herein contains an alkenyl or
alkenylene group, the compound may exist as one geometric
(i.e,, cis/trans) isomer or a mixture of geometric (i,e.,
cisltrans) isomers.

[0141] Where structural isomers are inter-convertible, the
compound may exist as a single tautomer or a mixture of
tautomers, This can take the form of proton tautomerism in
the compound that contains, for example, an imino, keto, or
oxime group; or so-called valence tautomerism in the com-
pound that contain, for example, an aromatic moiety. It
follows that a single compound may exhibit more than one
type of isomen'sm,

[0142] Unless otherwise speciﬁed, the term “compound”
referred to herein, such as, eg, a compound of formula (I),
(II-A), (II-B), (III-a), (III-b), (III-c), (III-d), (IV-a), (IV-b),
(IV-c), (IV-d), (IV-e), or (IV-f) is intended to encompass one
or more of the following: a free base of the compound or a
salt thereof, a stereoisomer or a mixture of two or more
stereoisomers, a solid form (e,g., a crystal form or an
amorphous form) or a mixture of two or more solid forms
thereof, or a solvate (eg, a hydrate) thereof In certain
embodiments, the term “compound” referred to herein is
intended to encompass a pharmaceutical acceptable form of
the compound, including but not limited to, a free base, a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt, a stereoisomer or a mix-
ture of two or more stereoisomers, a solid form (eg, a
crystal form or an amorphous form) or a mixture of two or
more solid forms, a solvate (eg, a hydrate), or a cocrystal
thereof In one embodiment, the term “compoun ” referred
to herein, such as, e,g., a compound of formula (I), (II-A),

\ \

N\NH

,or

/

NH.
NV

N
H
US 2019/0031685 A1

-continued

\
@M I /
0 N N 0,
CN II-I
QC m
N\/\/\0 N/ N 0, or
l
/N\ \
was ﬁt
/ N\/\/\0 N/ o.

N
|
H

[0134] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (IV-e), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

(IV-e)
\
a I NH
N\/\/\ / /<
0 N N
H

wherein Ring Ar is deﬁned herein elsewhere In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is a benzo, pyrazolo, thieno, pyrimido,
pyrazino, thiazolo, imidazolo, furano, or pyridazino ring,
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky-
lamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuoro, (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substi-
tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl,
and optionally substituted pyridyl. In one embodiment, Ring
Ar is an optionally substituted benzo ring, In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazolo ring In
one embodiment, Ring Ar is a pyrazolo ring, optionally
substituted with optionally substituted phenyl or optionally
substituted pyridyl, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an
optionally substituted thieno ring, In one embodiment, Ring
Ar is an optionally substituted pyrimido ring In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazino ring, In
one embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted thi-
azolo ring. In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally
substituted irnidazolo ring In one embodiment, Ring Ar is
an optionally substituted furano ring. In one embodiment,
Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyridazino ring. In one
embodiment, the optional substituents include, but are not
limited to, halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)
alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and
(C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more
ﬂuoro (e.g,, F or Cl) In other embodiments, the optional
substituents include, but are not limited to, optionally sub-
stituted phenyl, and optionally substituted pyridyl (etgl,
phenyl or pyridyl),

Jan. 3], 2019

[0135] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:
| \
/

NH,
@NO N §/<
o

F \
N I NH,
/
\/\/\0 N g/QO
Cl \
I30 I
N\/\/\0 N /<

/
N
H O
S \
| |
\ N\/\/\ /
0 N N
H O
/ \
| | m
s N\/\/\ / /<
O N N
H 0
Cl
\
I m
N\/\/\ /
O N N
H O
N\ \
Ph—N | NH, or
/ N\/\/\ / /<
0 N N
H O
N N
/ \ N, \ | \ N'H.
— / N\/\/\ / ,<
0 N N
H 0
[0136] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound

of formula (N-l), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

(IV-f)

\

a N\/\/\ I /
0

wherein Ring Ar and R1 are deﬁned herein elsewhere, In one
embodiment, R1 is iNHCO(Cl-C3)alkyl, iNHS(O)2(C1-
C3)alky1,
US 2019/0031685 A1

natural defenses against contaminants, and thus, in these
embodiments, parenteral dosage forms are sterile or capable
of being sterilized prior to administration to a patient.
Examples of parenteral dosage forms include, but are not
limited to, solutions ready for injection, dry products ready
to be dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutically accept-
able vehicle for injection, suspensions ready for injection,
and emulsions.

[0263] Suitable vehicles that can be used to provide par-
enteral dosage forms are well known to those skilled in the
art. Examples include, but are not limited to: Water for
Injection USP; aqueous vehicles such as, but not limited to,
Sodium Chloride Injection, Ringer’s Injection, Dextrose
Injection, Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection, and
Lactated Ringer’s Injection; water-miscible vehicles such
as, but not limited to, ethyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, and
polypropylene glycol; and non-aqueous vehicles such as, but
not limited to, corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, sesame oil,
ethyl oleate, isopropyl myristate, and benzyl benzoate,
[0264] Compounds that increase the solubility of one or
more of the active ingredients disclosed herein can also be
incorporated into the parenteral dosage forms. For example,
cyclodextrin and its derivatives can be used to increase the
solubility of a compound provided herein See, erg, US.
Pat. No. 5,134,127, which is incorporated herein by refer-
ence.

[0265] (d) Topical and Mucosal Dosage Forms

[0266] Topical and mucosal dosage forms provided herein
include, but are not limited to, sprays, aerosols, solutions,
emulsions, suspensions, eye drops or other ophthalmic
preparations, or other forms known to one of skill in the art.
See, e.g., Remington ’5 Pharmaceutical Sciences, 16th and
18th eds., Mack Publishing, Easton Pa. (1980 & 1990); and
Introduction to Pharmaceutical Dosage Forms, 4th ed, Lea
& Febiger, Philadelphia (1985), Dosage forms suitable for
treating mucosal tissues within the oral cavity can be for-
mulated as mouthwashes or as oral gelsi

[0267] Suitable excipients (e.g,, carriers and diluents) and
other materials that can be used to provide topical and
mucosal dosage forms encompassed herein are well known
to those skilled in the phamiaceutical arts, and depend on the
particular tissue to which a given pharmaceutical composi-
tion or dosage form will be applied, In one embodiment,
excipients include, but are not limited to, water, acetone,
ethanol, ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, butane-1,3-diol,
isopropyl myristate, isopropyl palmitate, mineral oil, and
mixtures thereof to form solutions, emulsions or gels, which
are non-toxic and pharmaceutically acceptable. Moisturizers
or humectants can also be added to pharmaceutical compo-
sitions and dosage forms. Examples of additional ingredi-
ents are well known in the art. See, e.g., Remington ’3
Pharmaceutical Sciences, 16th and 18th edsi, Mack Pub-
lishing, Easton Pa. (1980 & 1990).

[0268] The pH of a pharmaceutical composition or dosage
form may also be adjusted to improve delivery of one or
more active ingredients. Also, the polarity of a solvent
carrier, its ionic strength, or tonicity can be adjusted to
improve delivery. Compounds such as stearates can also be
added to pharmaceutical compositions or dosage forms to
alter the hydrophilicity or lipophilicity of one or more active
ingredients so as to improve delivery. In other embodiments,
stearates can serve as a lipid vehicle for the formulation, as
an emulsifying agent or surfactant, or as a delivery-enhanc-
ing or penetration-enhancing agent. In other embodiments,

Jan. 31, 2019

salts, solvates, prodrugs, clathrates, or stereoisomers of the
active ingredients can be used to further adjust the properties
of the resulting composition.

[0269] 4, Kits

[0270] In one embodiment, active ingredients provided
herein are not administered to a patient at the same time or
by the same route of administration. In another embodiment,
provided are kits which can simplify the administration of
appropriate amounts of active ingredients.

[0271] In one embodiment, a kit comprises a dosage form
of a compound provided herein. Kits can further comprise
one or more second active ingredients as described herein,
or a pharmacologically active mutant or derivative thereof,
or a combination thereof.

[0272] In other embodiments, kits can further comprise
devices that are used to administer the active ingredients,
Examples of such devices include, but are not limited to,
syringes, drip bags, patches, and inhalers.

[0273] Kits can further comprise cells or blood for trans-
plantation as well as pharmaceutically acceptable vehicles
that can be used to administer one or more active ingredi-
ents. For example, if an active ingredient is provided in a
solid form that must be reconstituted for parenteral admin-
istration, the kit can comprise a sealed container of a suitable
vehicle in which the active ingredient can be dissolved to
form a particulate-free sterile solution that is suitable for
parenteral administration. Examples of pharmaceutically
acceptable vehicles include, but are not limited to: Water for
Injection USP; aqueous vehicles such as. but not limited to,
Sodium Chloride Injection, Ringer’s Injection, Dextrose
Injection, Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection, and
Lacmted Ringer’s Injection; water-miscible vehicles such
as, but not limited to, ethyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, and
polypropylene glycol; and non—aqueous vehicles such as, but
not limited to, corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, sesame oil,
ethyl oleate, isopropyl myristate, and benzyl benzoate.

V EXAMPLES

[0274] Certain embodiments are illustrated by the follow-
ing non-limiting examples.

[0275] A. Compound Synthesis

[0276] In the examples below, unless otherwise indicated,
all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius and all parts
and percentages are by weight. Reagents may be purchased
from commercial suppliers, such as Sigma-Aldrich Chemi-
cal Company, and may be used without further puriﬁcation
unless otherwise indicated. Reagents may also be prepared
following standard literature procedures known to those
skilled in the art Solvents may be purchased from Aldrich
in Sure-Seal bottles and used as received. All solvents may
be puriﬁed using standard methods known to those skilled in
the art, unless otherwise indicated.

[0277] The reactions set forth below were done generally
at ambient temperature, unless otherwise indicated. The
reaction ﬂasks were ﬁtted with rubber septa for introduction
of substrates and reagents via syringe. Analytical thin layer
chromatography (TLC) was performed using glass-backed
silica gel pre-coated plates (MerckArt 5719) and eluted with
appropriate solvent ratios (v/v). Reactions were assayed by
TLC or LCMS, and terminated as judged by the consump-
tion of starting material. Visualization of the TLC plates was
done with IN light (254 wavelength) or with an appropriate
TLC visualizing solvent, such as basic aqueous KMnO4
solution activated with heat. Flash column chromatography
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0068] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “subject” is deﬁned herein to include animals such as
mammals, including, but not limited to, primates (e.g.,
humans), cows, sheep, goats, horses, dogs, cats, rabbits, rats,
mice and the like. In speciﬁc embodiments, the subject is a
human,

[0069] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “neurological disorder” refers to any condition of the
central or peripheral nervous system of a mammal The term
“neurological disorder” includes, but is not limited to,
neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., Alzheimer’s disease, Par-
kinson’s disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), neurop-
sychiatric diseases (e.g., schizophrenia and anxieties, such
as general anxiety disorder), and aﬂective disorders (e.g,,
depression and attention deﬁcit disorder). Exemplary neu-
rological disorders include, but are not limited to, MLS
(cerebellar ataxia), Huntington’s disease, Down syndrome,
multi-infarct dementia, depression (e.g., major depressive
disorder, dysthymia, and bipolar depressive disorder),
dementias, movement disorders, psychoses, alcoholism,
post-traumatic stress disorder and the like, “Neurological
disorder” also includes any condition associated with the
disorder. For instance, a method of treating a neurodegen-
erative disorder includes methods of treating loss of memory
and/or loss of cognition associated with a neurodegenerative
disorder. An exemplary method would also include treating
or preventing loss of neuronal function characteristic of
neurodegenerative disorden

[0070] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
terms “psychosis," “schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive
disorder,” “substance abuse,” “anxiety,” “eating disorders,”
“migraine,” and other CNS disorders described herein else-
where are used herein in a manner consistent with their
accepted meanings in the art. See, e.g., Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4’“ Ed, American
Psychiatric Association (1997) (DSM-IVW'),

[0071] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “affective disorder” includes depression, attention deﬁ-
cit disorder, attention deﬁcit disorder with hyperactivity,
bipolar and manic conditions, and the like, Additionally, in
some embodiments, affective disorder can include an anxi-
ety disorder (erg, panic disorder, speciﬁc phobia, social
phobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic
stress disorder, acute stress disorder, generalized anxiety
disorder, anxiety disorder due to a general medical condi-
tion), and the like, The terms “attention deﬁcit disorder”
(ADD) and “attention deﬁcit disorder with hyperactivity”
(ADDH), or attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD), are used herein in accordance with the accepted
meanings as found in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual
of Mental Disorders, 4’“ Ed, American Psychiatric Associa-
tion (1997) (DSM-IVTM),

[0072] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “depression” includes all forms of depression includ-
ing, but not limited to, major depressive disorder (MDD),
bipolar disorder, seasonal affective disorder (SAD), dysthy-
mia, and treatment resistant depression. “Major depressive
disorder” is used herein interchangeably with “unipolar
depression” and “major depression," “Depression" may also
include any condition commonly associated with depres-
sion, such as all forms of fatigue (e.g,, chronic fatigue
symdrome) and cognitive deﬁcits.

[0073] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “pain” refers to an unpleasant sensory and emotional

Jan. 31, 2019

experience. The term “pain,” as used herein, refers to all
categories of pain, including pain that is described in terms
of stimulus or nerve response, erg, somatic pain (normal
nerve response to a noxious stimulus) and neuropathic pain
(abnormal response of a injured or altered sensory pathway,
often without clear noxious input); pain that is categorized
temporally, e.g,, chronic pain and acute pain; pain that is
categorized in terms of its severity, e.g., mild, moderate, or
severe; and pain that is a symptom or a result of a disease
state or syndrome, e.g., inﬂammatory pain, cancer pain,
AIDS pain, arthropathy, migraine, trigeminal neuralgia, car-
diac ischaemia, and diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain
(See, e.g., Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine, pp.
93-98 (Wilson et al,, eds,, 12th ed, 1991); Williams et al., J,
aned. Chem. 42: 1481-1485 (1999), herein each incorpo-
rated by reference in their entirety). “Pain” is also meant to
include mixed etiology pain, dual mechanism pain, allo-
dynia, causalgia, central pain, hyperesthesia, hyperpathia,
dysesthesia, and hyperalgesia, In addition, The term “pain"
includes pain resulting from dysfunction of the nervous
system: organic pain states that share clinical features of
neuropathic pain and possible common pathophysiology
mechanisms, but are not initiated by an identiﬁable lesion in
any part of the nervous system.

B. Compounds

[0074] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (I):

(I)

lN—(CR“’R“),,—W X R1
R4

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer
thereof, wherein

[0075] n is 2, 3, or 4;

[0076] W is O, NR5, or CH2;

[0077] X is N or CH;

[0078] Y is N or CH;

[0079] each R10 and each R11 are independently H, F, OH,

or (C1-C4)alkyl;

[0080] (i) Rl is amido, sulfonamido, optionally substituted
imidazolyl, or optionally substituted pyrazolyl; and R2 is H,
halogen, CN, (C1-C4)alkyl, or (C 1-C3)alkoxyl; or (ii) R1 and
R2 together with the carbon atoms to which they are attached
form a 5-, 6-, or 7-membered aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or
heterocyclyl ring, each of which is optionally substituted
with one to three R6;

[0081] R3 and R4 together with the nitrogen atom to which
they are attached form an optionally substituted heterocyclyl

Q;
US 2019/0031685 A1

(II-B), (HI-a), (III-b), (III-c), (III-d), (IV-a), (IV-b), (IV-c),
(IV-d), (IV-e), or (IV-t) is intended to encompass a solvate
(e.g., a hydrate) thereof.

[0143] The compounds provided herein may be
enantiomerically pure, such as a single enantiomer or a
single diastereomer, or be stereoisomeric mixtures, such as
a mixture of enantiomers, e.g., a racemic mixture of two
enantiomers; or a mixture of two or more diastereomers. In
some instances, for compounds that undergo epimerization
in vivo, one of skill in the art will recognize that adminis-
tration of a compound in its (R) form is equivalent to
administration of the compound in its (S) form, and vice
versa. Conventional techniques for the preparation/isolation
of individual enantiomers include synthesis from a suitable
optically pure precursor, asymmetric synthesis from achiral
starting materials, or resolution of an enantiomenc mixture,
for example, by chiral chromatography, recrystallization,
resolution, diastereomeric salt formation, or derivatization
into diastereomeric adducts followed by separation

[0144] When the compound provided herein conmins an
acidic or basic moiety, it may also be provided as a phar-
maceutically acceptable salt (See, Berge et al., J. Pharm. Sci.
1977, 66, 1-19; and “Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts,
Properties, and Use,” Stahl and Wermulh, Ed; Wiley-VCH
and VHCA, Zurich, 2002).

[0145] Suitable acids for use in the preparation of phar-
maceutically acceptable salts include, but are not limited to,
acetic acid. 2,2-dichloroacetic acid, acylated amino acids,
adipic acid, alginic acid, ascorbic acid, L-aspartic acid,
benzenesulfonic acid, benzoic acid, 4-acetamidobenzoic
acid, boric acid, (+)-camphoric acid, camphorsulfonic acid,
(+)-(1S)-camphor—10-sulfonic acid, capric acid, caproic
acid, caprylic acid, cinnamic acid, citric acid, cyclamic acid,
cyclohexanesulfamic acid, dodecylsulftu‘ic acid, ethane-1,2-
disulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, 2-hydroxy-ethanesul-
fonic acid, formic acid, fumaric acid, galactaric acid, gen-
tisic acid, glucoheptonic acid, D-gluconic acid,
D-glucuronic acid, L—glutamic acid, (x-oxoglutaric acid,
glycolic acid, hippuric acid. hydrobromic acid, hydrochloric
acid, hydroiodic acid, (+)-L-lactic acid, (:)-DL-lactic acid,
lactobionic acid, lauric acid, maleic acid, (—)-L-malic acid,
malonic acid, (:)-DL-mandelic acid, methanesulfonic acid,
naphthalene-Z-sulfonic acid, naphthalene-1,5-disulfonic
acid, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid, nicotinic acid, nitric acid,
oleic acid, orotic acid, oxalic acid, palmitic acid, pamoic
acid, perchloric acid, phosphoric acid, L-pyroglutamic acid,
saccharic acid, salicylic acid, 4-amino-salicylic acid, sebacic
acid, stearic acid, succinic acid, sulfuric acid, tannic acid,
(+)-L-tartaric acid, thiocyanic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid,
undecylenic acid, and valeric acid.

[0146] Suitable bases for use in the preparation of phar-
maceutically acceptable salts. including, but not limited to,
inorganic bases, such as magnesium hydroxide, calcium
hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, zinc hydroxide, or sodium
hydroxide; and organic bases, such as primary, secondary,
tertiary, and quatemary, aliphatic and aromatic amines,
including L-arginine, benethamine, benzathine, choline,
deanol, diethanolamine, diethylamine, dimethylamine,
dipropylamine, diisopropylamine, 2-(diethylamino)-etha-
nol, ethanolamine, ethylamine, ethylenediarnine, isopro-
pylamine, N -methyl-glucamine, hydrabamine, 1H-imida-
zole, L-lysine, morpholine, 4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-morpholine,
methylamine, piperidine, piperazine, propylamine, pyrroli-
dine, 1-(2-hydroxyethyl)-pyrrolidine, pyridine, quinucli-

Jan. 31, 2019

dine, quinoline, isoquinoline, secondary amines, trietha-
nolamine, trimethylamine, triethylamine, N-methyl-D-
glutamine, 2-amino-2-(hydroxymethyl)-1,3-propanediol,
and tromethamine.

[0147] The compound provided herein may also be pro-
vided as a prodrug, which is a functional derivative of the
compound, for example, of Formula 1, and is readily con-
vertible into the parent compound in vivo Prodrugs are
often useful because, in some situations, they may be easier
to administer than the parent compound They may, for
instance, be bioavailable by oral administration whereas the
parent compound is not. The prodrug may also have
enhanced solubility in pharmaceutical compositions over the
parent compound. A prodrug may be converted into the
parent drug by various mechanisms, including enzymatic
processes and metabolic hydrolysis. See Harper, Progress in
Drug Research 1962, 4, 221-294; Morozowich el al, in
“Design of Biopharmaceutical Properties through Prodrugs
and Analogs,” Roche Ed, APHA Acadl Pharm. Sci. 1977;
“Bioreversible Carriers in Drug in Drug Design, Theory and
Application,” Roche Ed, APHA Acad. Pharm. Sci. 1987;
“Design of Prodrugs,” Bundgaard, Elsevier, 1985; Wang et
al., Curr Pharm. Design 1999, 5, 265-287; Pauletti et al.,
Adv. Drug. Delivery Rev. 1997, 27, 235-256; Mizen et al.,
Pharm. Biotech. 1998, 11, 345-365; Gaignault et al., Pract.
Med. Chem. 1996, 671-696; Asghamejad in “Transport
Processes in Pharmaceutical Systems,” Amidon et al., Ed.,
Marcell Dekker, 185-218, 2000; Balant et al., Eur J. Drug
Metab. Pharmacokinet. 1990, 15, 143-53; Balimane and
Sinko, Adv DrugDelivery Rev. 1999, 39, 183-209; Browne,
Clin. Neuropharmacol, 1997, 20, 1-12; Bundgaard, Arch.
Pharm. Chem. 1979, 86, 1-39; Bundgaard, ConlrolledDrug
Delivery 1987, 17, 179-96; Bundgaard, Adv. Drug Delivery
Rev. 1992, 8, 1-38; Fleisher et al., Adv. Drug Delivery Rev.
1996, 19, 115-130; Fleisher et al., Methods Enzymol. 1985,
112, 360-381; Farquhar et al., .1 Pharm Sci. 1983, 72,
324-325; Freeman et al., J. Chem Soc, Chem. Commun.
1991, 875-877; Friis and Bundgaard, Eur J. Pharm. Sci.
1996, 4, 49-59; Gangwar et al., Des, Biopharm. Prop.
Prodrugs Analogs, 1977, 409-421; Nathwani and Wood,
Drugs 1993, 45, 866-94; Sinhababu and Thakker, Adv Drug
Delivery Rev 1996, 19, 241-273; Stella et al., Drugs 1985,
29, 455-73; Tan et al., Adv. Drug Delivery Rev 1999, 39,
117-151; Taylor, Adv. Drug Delivery Rev 1996, 19, 131-
148; Valentino and Borchardt, Drug Discovery deay 1997,
2, 148-155; Wiebe and Knaus, Adv. Drug Delivery Rev.
1999, 39, 63-80; and Waller et al., Br. J. Clin. Pharmae.
1989, 28, 497-507

C. Synthetic Schemes

[0148] Schemes below provide exemplary synthetic meth-
ods for the preparation of the compounds provided herein,
Similar methods may be employed to prepare the com-
pounds provided herein. Suitable adjustments to reagents,
protecting groups, reaction conditions, and reaction
sequences may be employed to prepare a desired embodi-
ment. The reactions may be scaled upwards or downwards
to suit the amount of material to be prepared.
US 2019/0031685 A1

(d) Synthesis of 6-chloro-1-(4-methoxybenzyl)-1H-
pyramlo[3,4—b]pyridine (1-5)

[0283] A mixture of compound 1-4 (600 mg, 3.92 mmol,
1.0 eq.), 1-(chloromethyl)-4-methoxybenzene (1044 mg,
6.67 mmol, 1.7 eq.), and potassium carbonate (1624 mg,
11.76 mmol, 30 eq) in acetonitrile (15 mL) was stirred at
60° C. for l h. The mixture was diluted with aq. sodium
bicarbonate (30 mL) and extracted with dichloromethane
(3x30 mL). The combined organic phase was dried, con-
centrated and puriﬁed by ﬂash column chromatography
(petroleum ether:ethy1 acetatﬁSﬂ) to provide compound
1-5 as a pale yellow oil (610 mg, yield: 57%), MS (ESI) m/z
274.0 [M+H]‘.

(e) Synthesis of 4-(1-(4-methoxybenzyl)-1H-pyra-
zolo[3,4-b]pyridin-6-yloxy)butan- 1-01 (1 -6)

[0284] A mixture of compound 1-5 (610 mg, 2.23 mmol,
10 eq.), butane-1,4-diol (604 mg, 6.70 mmol, 30 eq.),
sodium hydride (60% w/w, 268 mg. 6.70 mmol, 3.0 eq.) in
N,N-dimethylformamide (10 mL) was stirred at room tem-
perature overnight. The mixture was diluted with aq, sodium
bicarbonate (30 mL) and extracted with dichloromethane
(3x30 mL). The combined organic phase was dried, con-
centrated and puriﬁed by ﬂash column (petroleum ether:
ethyl acetate:2:1) to give compound 1—6 as a clear oil (380
mg, yield: 52%). MS (ESI) m/z 328.2 [M+H]*.

(i) Synthesis of 4-(1-(4-methoxybenzyl)-1H-pyra-
zolo[3,4-b]pyridin—6-yloxy)buty1 4-methy1benzene-
sulfonate (1-7)

[0285] To a solution of compound 1-6 (230 mg, 0.7 mmol,
10 eq.) and potassium hydroxide (118 mg, 2.1 mmol, 30
eq.) in acetronitrile (5 mL) was added tosyl chloride (266
mg, 1.4 mmol, 2.0 eq.) in portions at 0° C. The mixture was
stirred at room temperature overnight. The resulting solution
was concentrated in vacuum to give a residue which was
dissolved in ethyl acetate (15 mL) and then washed with
brine (3x5 mL). The organic layer was dried over anhydrous
sodium sulfate, ﬁltered and concentrated in vacuum to give
the cmde product which was puriﬁed by prep-TLC (petro-
leum etherzethyl acetate:12:5) to aﬁord compound 1-7 as a
yellow oil (180 mg, yield: 53%), MS (ESI): m/z 482
[M+H]‘.

(g) Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piper-
azin-l -y1)butoxy)-1 -(4-methoxy-benzyl)-1H-pyra-
zolo[3,4-h]pyridine (1 -8)

[0286] A mixture of compound 1-7 (25 mg, 0.052 mmol,
1.0 eq.), 1-(2,3-dichlorophenyl) piperazine (60.1 mg, 0.26
mmol, 5.0 eq.), and potassium carbonate (55 mg, 0.4 mmol,
7.7 eq.) in tert-butanol (10.0 mL) was heated at 60° C. for
48 h, The mixture was diluted with water (30 mL) and
extracted with dichloromethane (3x30 mL). The combined
organic phase was dried, concentrated and puriﬁed by ﬂash
column chromatography (petroleum etherzethyl acetate:1:1)
to give compound 1-8 (23 mg, yield: 82%). MS (ESI) m/z
540.2 [M+H]*.

(h) Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(2,3-dichloropheny1)piper—
azin-1-yl)butoxy)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyrid.ine
(Compound 1)

[0287] Amixture of compound 1-8 (23 mg, 0.042 mmol)
in triﬂuoroacetic acid (5.0 mL) was heated at 60° C. over-

Jan. 31, 2019

night. The mixture was diluted with aq. potassium carbonate
(30 mL) and extracted with dichloromethane (3x30 mL).
The combined organic phase was dried, concentrated and
puriﬁed by ﬂash column chromatography (dichloromethane:
methanol:20:1) to give compound 1 (17 mg, yield: 95%),
MS (ESI) m/z 420.2 [M+H]‘, 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC],):
8 7.95 (s, 1H), 7.91 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.11-7.17 (m, 2H),
6.95 (dd, 1:2.8 Hz, 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.61 (d, 1:8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.46
(t, 1:4.8 Hz, 2H), 3.10 (br, 4H), 2.70 (br, 4H), 2.56 (t, 1:7.6
Hz, 2H), 1.87-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.82 (m, 2H).

2. Synthesis of 6-(4—(4-(naphthalen-1-yl)piperazin-
1-yl)butoxy)-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine (Com-
pound 2)

[0288]

Compound 2
H

Ame N. N.
\E/I/

[0289] This compound was prepared in 53% yield (last
step) (13 mg) as described for Compound 1 but using
1-(naphthalene-1-yl)piperazine as the starting material. MS
(ESI): m/z 402 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHZ, CDCls): 6
8.17-8.21 (m, 1H), 7.94 (s, 1H), 7.90 (d, J:8.4 HZ, 1H),
7.80-7.84 (m, 1H), 7.54 ((1, F8 Hz, 1H), 7.43-7.49 (m. 2H),
7.39 (t, J:8 Hz, 1H), 7.08 (d, J:8 Hz, 1H), 6.62 ((1, F84 Hz,
1H), 4.47 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.19 (br, 4H). 2.81 (br, 4H), 2.62
(t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.85-1.95 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.84 (m, 2H).

3. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(2,3-dimethylphenyl)piper-
azin-l -y1)butoxy)- lH-pyrazolo [3, 4-h]pyridine
(Compound 3)

[0290]

Compound 3
H

/\/\/O N N

[0291] This compound was prepared in 81% yield (last
step) (24 mg) as a pale-yellow oil as described for Com-
pound 1 but using 1-(2,3-dimethylphenyl)piperazine as the
starting material, MS (ESI): m/z 380 [M+H]*. ‘H NMR (400
MHz, CDC],): 8 118 (hr, 1H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.90 (d, J:8.8
Hz, 1H), 7.06 (t, 1:8 Hz, 1H), 6.90 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 6.60
(d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.46 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.93 (t, 1:4.8 Hz,
US 2019/0031685 A1

4H), 2.66-2.76 (m, 4H), 253 (t, J:8 Hz, 2H), 2,26 (s, 3H),
2.21 (s, 3H), 1.86-1.93 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.80 (m, 2H).

4. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(pyridin-2-yl)piperazin-l-yl)
butoxy)-lH-pyrazolo[3, 4-b]pyridine (Compound 4)

[0292]

Compound 4
H

/\/\/o N N
\0 IL

[0293] This compound was prepared in 67% yield (last
step) (25 mg) as a pale-yellow oil as described for Com-
pound l but using l-(pyridin-2-yl)piperazine as the starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 353 [M+H]+. 1H NW (400 MHz,
CDC];): a 8.19-8.21 (m. 1H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.89 (d, 1:84 Hz,
1H), 744-748 (m, 1H), 6158-6164 (m, 3H), 4.45 (1, J:6 Hz,
2H), 358 (t, J:4,8 Hz, 4H), 2.61 (1, J:4,8 Hz, 4H), 2,51 (1,
H; Hz, 2H), 1.84-1.91 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.80 (m, 2H).

5. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piper—
azin-l-yl)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 5)

[0294]

0H0

Jan. 31, 2019

for 5 hours and then cooled to room temperature Acetic
anhydride was removed under reduced pressure. The residue
was neutralized to pH 7 with saturated sodium bicarbonate
solution, then extracted with ethyl acetate (20 mL><3). The
organic layers were combined, dried over sodium sulfate and
concentrated to dryness to give a tan oil, which was treated
with ethanol to provide compound 5-3 (138 mg, 34% yield)
as a brown solid, MS (ESI): m/z 204 [M+H]’,

(c) Synthesis of 2-(4-bromobutoxy)quinolin-S-yl
acetate (5-4)

[0297] To a solution of 2-hydr0xyquinolin—8-yl acetate
(5-3) (406 mg, 2 mmol) and 1,4-dibromobutane (432 mg, 2
mmol) in N,N-dimethylformamide (10 mL) at 90° C,, was
added cesium carbonate (652 mg, 326 mg). The mixture was
stirred for 10 minutes and was puriﬁed by reverse phase
column chromatography (acetonitrile2wateF5021 with
0.01% NH40H) to give compound 5-4 (280 mg, 41% yield)
as a light yellow oil, MS (ESI): m/z 338, 340 [M+H]+,

(d) Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piper—
azin-l-yl)butoxy) quinolin-S-yl acetate (5-5)

[0298] To a solution of 2-(4-bromobutoxy)quinolin—8-yl
acetate (5-4) (50 mg, 0.15 mmol) and 1-(2,3-dichlorophe-
nyl)piperazine (35 mg, 0.15 mmol) in N,N-d.imethylforrna-
mide (2 mL), potassium carbonate (42 mg, 0.3 mmol) was
added, The mixture was stirred at 40° C. for 2 h and was then
puriﬁed by reverse phase column chromatography (acetoni-
trilezwateF25z75 with 0.01% NHAOH) to give a crude

5-4

OH I
N N\ OH Br
HZOZ/HOAc A320 /\/\/ Br N O/\/\/
4» —> Br—,
OAc
5-1

OAc
N
5—3

5-2

0H
Compound 5

(a) Synthesis of quinolin-S-ol-N—oxide (5-2)

[0295] A solution of quinolin-S-ol (4 g, 27.6 mmol) in
35% hydrogen peroxide solution (10 ml) in acetic acid (25
mL) was stirred at 70° C, for 16 hours, Aﬁer the reaction
mixture was neutralized to pH 12 with ammonium hydrox-
ide, it was extracted with ethyl acetate (50 1an3). The
organic layers were combined, dried over sodium sulfate and
concentrated to dryness to aﬂord 5-2 (1.8 g, 40% yield) as
a brown solid. MS (ESI): m/z 238 [M+H]*.

(b) Synthesis of 2-hydroxyquinolin-8-yl acetate
(5-3)
[0296] A solution of quinolin-8-ol-N-oxide (5-2) (322 mg,
2 mmol) in acetic anhydride (4 mL) was stirred at 140° C.

i

\ N c1
/ /\/\/ \) Cl
N o N

OAc
575

product. The crude product was directly used for the next
step without further puriﬁcation. MS (ESl): m/z 489
[M+H]+.

(e) Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piper—
azin-l-yl)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 5)

[0299] A mixture of 2-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piper—
azin—1-yl)butoxy)quinolin»8-yl acetate (5-5) (72 mg, 0.15
mmol) and potassium carbonate (42 mg, 0.3 mmol) in
methanol was stirred at 60° C. for 30 minutes, Methanol was

removed in vacuo, and the residue was puriﬁed by prep-
HPLC (basic eluent) to aﬁord compound 5 (13 mg, 20%
yield) as a light yellow solid. MS (ESl): m/z 446 [M+H]*.
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019

23
[0149] In one embodiment, the compounds provided -continued
herein may be prepared following Schemes I and 11, using
suitable starting materials known in the art and/or available
from a commercial source, In one embodiment, the starting
materials of Schemes I and 11 may be prepared from com- 2
mercially available compounds using procedures and con- / R
ditions known in the art Exemplary procedures and condi- 3 Y I
tions are provided herein elsewhere Speciﬁc schemes for R\ k
preparing compounds provided herein are shown below, N—(CRloRll)n—W X R‘
Detailed reaction conditions are provided for various spe- R“,
ciﬁc examples herein below, The following schemes may be
i i i . (I)
modiﬁed With appropriate reagents, protecting groups, con-
ditions, starting materials, or reaction sequences to suit the
preparation of other embodiments provided herein,
Scheme I
R2 [0150] In one embodiment, a compound of formula (I)
Y / may be prepared following Scheme Ii Compound (I-a) may
I be purchased from a commercial source, prepared following
\ +
C1 X R1 literature procedures, or prepared as described herein, Com-
I—a pound (I-a) is treated with (I-b), an amino-alcohol (when
/(CR‘°R' 1),, \ W:NW) or a diol (when W:O), in the presence or absence
H0 W—H —* i i .
of a base, to yield (I-c). Compounds (I—c) is treated With
17b R2 tosyl chloride, followed by reaction with an amine (I-d) to
Y / render a compound of formula (1), Alternatively, compound
I (I-c) may be converted to, for example, an aldehyde, by
(CRIORU) \ i , i i .
HO/ "\w x R' OXidation (e.g,, Swern oXidation), followed by reductive
1.0 amination with (I-d) to afford a compotmd of formula (I),
3 Compound (I-d) may be purchased from a commercial
R\N/ H source or prepared following literature procedures, Option-
IA ally, further organic transformations may convert R, R1, R2,
1]: R3, R4 and/or R5 to other suitable embodiments of R, R1, R2,
R3, R4 and/or R5 to provide additional embodiments of a
compound of formula (I),
Scheme 2
Z 2
Y / R Y / R
A l /(CR10RH)"\ l
+ Br Br . (CRlDRll)ﬂ A
HO \x R1 Ht Br/ ‘w \x R1
H.“ H-c
R3 H
\N/
|
R4
I-d
R2
y /
3 |
R\ \
[N—(CR‘OR‘hn—W X R’

R4
(I)
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0082] Q is

[0083] R5 is H or (C1-C3)a1ky1;

[0084] each R6 is independently OH, keto, halogen, CN,
(C1-C3)a1ky1, or (C1-C3)alkoxy1;

[0085] R7 is 5- to 10-membered aryl or heteroaryl, each
optionally substituted with one to three substituents; and

[0086] Ring Ar is a benzo, pyrazolo, pyrido, thieno,
pyrimido, pyrazino, furano, pyridazino, thiazolo, or imida-
zolo ring, each optionally substituted with one to three
substituents;

[0087] provided that:
[0088] (i) when Q is

_, / R2
18— N%, then Y/I
\ / \X R1

is not
Y/ I \
\
X N 0,
H
Y / I
\
x N 0, or
H
Y /
| NH
\
X N
H 0;
and

[0089] (ii) whenAr is an optionally substituted benzo ring,
then

Jan. 3], 2019

is not
m
N O, N 0,
H H
NH \N
/g N’
N H
H 0, or
[0090] In one embodiment, n is 2, In one embodiment, n

is 3, In one embodiment, n is 4,

[0091] In one embodiment, W is O, In one emboc ‘ment, W
is NR5, In one embodiment, W is NH, In one emaodiment,
W is CH2,

[0092] In one embodiment, X is N, In one embodiment, X
is CH.

[0093] In one embodiment, Y is N. In one embodiment, Y
is CH,

[0094] In one embodiment, R10 is H, In one em nodiment,

R10 is F, In one embodiment, R10 is OH. In one em nodiment,
R10 is (C1-C4)alkyl,
[0095] In one embodiment, R11 is H. In one em odiment,
R11 is F, In one embodiment, is OH. In one embodiment, R11
is (Cl- 4)a1ky1,
[0096] In one embodiment, R1 is amido, sul onamido,
optionally substituted imidazolyl, or optionally substituted
pyrazolyl; and R2 is H, halogen, CN, (C 1-C4)alkyl, or
(C1-C3)alkoxy1, In one embodiment, R1 is ami . In one
embodiment, R1 is sulfonamido. In one embodiment, R1 is
optionally substituted imidazolyli In one embodiment, R1 is
optionally substituted pyrazolyl, In one embodiment, R2 is
H, In one embodiment, R2 is halogen. In one em aodiment,
R2 is CN. In one embodiment, R2 is (C1-C4)a1ky1. In one
embodiment, R2 is (C1-C3)a1koxy1.

[0097] In one embodiment, R1 and R2 together with the
carbon atoms to which they are attached form a 5-, 6-, or
7-membered aryl, heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or heterocyclyl
ring, each of which is optionally substituted with one to
three R6, In one embodiment, R1 and R2 together with the
carbon atoms to which they are attached form a 5-membered
heteroaryl ring, optionally substituted with one to three R6.
In one embodiment, R1 and {2 together with the carbon
atoms to which they are attached form a 5-membered
cycloalkyl ring, optionally substituted with one to three R6.
In one embodiment, R1 and {2 together with the carbon
atoms to which they are attached form a 5-membered
heterocyclyl ring, optionally substituted with one to three
R6, In one embodiment, R1 and R2 together with the carbon
atoms to which they are attac1ed form a 6-membered aryl
ring, optionally substituted with one to three R6. In one
embodiment, R1 and R2 togetier with the carbon atoms to
which they are attached form a 6-membered heteroaryl ring,
optionally substituted with one to three R6. In one embodi-
ment, R1 and R2 together WIT‘I the carbon atoms to which
they are attached form a 6-membered cycloalkyl ring,
optionally substituted with one to three R5. In one embodi-
ment, R1 and R2 together wit] the carbon atoms to which
they are attached form a 6-membered heterocyclyl ring,
optionally substituted with one to three R6, In one embodi-
ment, R1 and R2 together wit] the carbon atoms to which
they are attached form a 7-membered heteroaryl ring,
US 2019/0031685 A1

34. Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-ethy1-6,7-dihydro-2H-pyra-
zolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroqui-
nolin-2(1H)-one (Compound 34)

[0357]
Compound 34
O
H
\ H
N N \1‘1

0

\ NV

[0358] This compound was prepared in 19% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-ethyl-4,5,6,7-tetra-
hydro-ZH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the starting material.
Ms (ESI): m/z 369.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13):
a 8.22 (s, 1H), 7.10 (s, 1H), 7.04 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
6.54-6.51 (dd, :24 Hz, 12:24 Hz, 1H), 6.34 (d. J:2.8 Hz,
1H), 4.13-4.07 (q, J:3.2 Hz, 2H), 3.97 (1, J:6.4 Hz, 2H),
3.52 (s, 2H), 2.91-2.77 (m, 6H), 2.64-2.58 (m, 4H), 187-1.
71 (m, 4H), 1.45 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 3H).

35. Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-(2-ﬂuorophenyl)-6,7-di-
hydro-ZH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-
3,4-dihydroquino]in-2(1H)-one (Compound 35)

[0359]

Compound 35

O
H H
\N N
\N F
0%? C§¥

[0360] This compound was prepared in 57% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-(2-ﬂuorophenyl)-
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 435.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): as 7.94 (s, 1H), 7.88-7.83 (m, 1H), 7.72 (d,
J:2.8 Hz, 1H), 7.25-7.18 (m, 3H), 7.05 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
6.55-6.52 (dd, J‘:2.4 Hz, 12:20 Hz, 1H), 6.33 (d, 1:24 Hz,
1H), 3.99 (1, F60 Hz, 2H), 3.64 (s, 2H), 2.95-2.88 (m, 6H),
2.68-2.61 (m, 4H), 1.90-1.76 (m, 4H).

36. Synthesis of 7-(4—(2-(3-ﬂuorophenyl)-6,7-di-
hydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]py1idin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-
3,4-dihyquuinolin-2(lH)-0ne (Compound 36)

[0361]

Compound 36

Jan. 3], 2019

[0362] This compound was prepared in 61% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-(3-ﬂuorophenyl)-
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]py1idine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 435.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIS): 6 7.73 (s, 1H), 7.48 (s, 1H), 7.44-7.38 (m,
1H), 7.33-7.28 (m, 2H), 7.07-7.00 (m, 2H), 6.56-6.53 (dd,
J1:2,8 Hz, J2:2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.31 (d, J:2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.99 (t,
J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.59 (s, 2H), 2.94-2.89 (m, 6H), 2.69-2.61
(m, 4H), 1.90-1.76 (m, 4H).

37. Synthesis of 7-(4—(2-(4-ﬂuorophenyl)-6,7-di-
hydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)—y1)butoxy)-
3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(lH)-one (Compound 37)

[0363]

Compound 37

[0364] This compound was prepared in 66% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-(4-ﬂuor0phenyl)-
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 435.1 [M+H]". 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 5 7.62-7.57 (m, 4H). 7.14-7.04 (m, 3H),
6.55-6.52 (dd, J‘:2.8 Hz, J2:2,4 Hz, 1H), 6.30 (d, J:2.4 Hz,
1H), 3.99 (1, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.63 (s. 2H), 2.92-2.87 (m, 6H),
2.67-2.60 (m, 4H), 188-177 (In, 4H).

38. Synthesis of7-(4-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)-6,7-dihydro—
2H-pyrazolo[4,3-cjpyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-
dihydroquinolin-2(lH)-one (Compound 38)

    
   

[0365]
Compound 38
O
H H
\
4p C§1
O
\ N N\
/

[0366] This compound was prepared in 32% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2—(pyridin—2-yl)-4,5,
6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the starting
material, MS (ESI): m/z 418.1 [M+H]“. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDClB): 6 8.39 (d, J:4,0 Hz, 1H), 8.27 (s, 1H), 7.90 ((1,
1:84 Hz. 1H), 7.79-7.75 (1, 1:72 Hz, 1H), 7.13 (t, J:6.4 Hz,
1H), 7.05 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.55-6.52 (dd, :24 Hz, J2:2.4
Hz, 1H), 6.33-6.30 (m, 1H), 3.99 (1, 1:56 Hz, 2H), 3.63 (s,
2H), 2.92-2.86 (m, 6H), 2.66-2.60 (m, 4H), 1.89-1.78 (m,
4H).
US 2019/0031685 A1
50

[0404] This compound was prepared in 34% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 4,5,
6,7-tetrahydmthieno[3,2-c]pyridine as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 356 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC/13): B 9.46 (bs, 1H), 7.71 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d,
J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (d, J:4.8 Hz, 1H), 6.72 (d, J:5.2 Hz,
2H), 6.59 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H). 6.52 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.40 (t,
J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.58 (s, 2H), 2.90 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.81 (t,
J:5,2 Hz, 2H), 2.62 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.73 (m, 4H).

54. Synthesis of 7—(4-(4,5-dihydrothieno[2,3-c]pyri-
din-6(7H)—yl)butoxy)-1,8-naphthy1idin-2(1H)—one
(Compound 54)

[0405]

 

Compound 54
I \ \
N\/\/\ I /
O N lil O
H

[0406] This compound was prepared in 14% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 4,5,
6,7-tetrahydrothieno[2,3-c]pyridine as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 356 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCls): B 9.41 (bs, 1H), 7.71 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d,
J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 7.08 (d, J:5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.72 (d, J:4.8 Hz,
2H), 6.59 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.40 (t,
J:6,4 Hz, 2H), 3.71 (s, 2H), 2.80 (t, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.75 (t,
J:4.8 Hz, 2H), 2.63 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.73 (m, 4H).

55. Synthesis of 7—(4-(6-methoxy-3,4-dihydroiso-
quinolin-2(1 H)-yl)butoxy)- 1 ,8-naphthyridin-2(l H)-
one (Compound 55)

[0407]

”OS
|
N\/\/\0

[0408] This compound was prepared in 84% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using
6-methoxy-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 380 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC],): 6 9.69 (bs, 1H), 7.70 (d, J:8,8 Hz, 1H), 7.62
(d, 1:9.6 Hz, 1H), 6.92 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.68 (dd, .ll:2.4
Hz, J2:8.0 Hz, 2H), 6.62 (d, J:2,4 Hz, 1H), 6.58 (d, J:8.4
Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.40 (t, J:6,4 Hz, 2H), 3.76
(s, 3H), 3.59 (s, 2H), 2.89 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.74 (t, J:5.6
Hz, 2H), 2.59 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.89-1.75 (m, 4H).

Compound 55

\\

N

Jan. 31, 2019

56. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6-ﬂuoro-3,4-dihydroisoquino-
lin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)—l,8»naphthyridin-2(1 H)—one
(Compound 56)

[0409]
Compound 56
F \ \
N\/\/\ I /
o N 1|\I o
H

[0410] This compound was prepared in 42% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using
6-ﬂuoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 368 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC13): 6 9.59 (bs, 1H), 7.71 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d,
1:92 Hz, 1H), 6.98-6.95 (m, 1H), 6.83-6.78 (m, 2H), 6.58
(d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d, 1:92 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (1, 1:60 Hz,
2H), 3.60 (s, 2H). 2.89 (t, 1:60 Hz. 2H), 2.73 (t, 1:60 Hz,
2H), 2.59 (t, 1:76 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.73 (m, 4H).

57, Synthesis of 2-(4-((7-0xo-7,8-dihydro-1,8-naph-
thyridin-2-yl)oxy)butyl)-l ,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquino-
line-6-carbonitrile (Compound 57)

[0411]

Compound 57

N\/\/\0 N/ N o

|
H

[0412] This compound was prepared in 41% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 1,2,
3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-6-carbonitrile as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 375 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCl3): 6 9.34 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, 1:84 Hz, 1H), 7.63
(d, 1:9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.40 (s, 1H), 7.39 (d, J:7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.11
(d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.59 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d, J:9.6 Hz,
1H), 4.40 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.68 (s, 2H), 2.92 (t, 1:60 Hz,
2H), 2.76 (t, 1:60 Hz, 2H), 2.61 (t, 1:76 Hz, 2H), 1.86 (m,
2H), 1.77 (m, 2H).

58, Synthesis of 7-(4-(6-(ttiﬂuoromethyl)-3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin-2 ( 1 H)-yl)butoxy)- l , 8 -naphthyridin-2
(1H)—one (Compound 58)

[0413]
Compound 58
“C \ \
N\/\/\ I /
O N T O
H
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31,2019
78

-continued -continued

0 11
Q OH
N/W \ ’ N /
K/NNO N/N @NO \N

33

Q

i

Q
2/ e e0

:9

Q
(J

\_
)2

5

C
Q
:41
2

0

Z

0

g
0

3:2\
/

z

14‘ The compound of claim 1, having formula (HI-c): OE:

\
Oz

E

/ \
J
/ m
E \
C}
2/ \: :/ \: 2/ \:

o
:

(1117c)

/
z

,or

/
Q
2/ \
a \—
C}
/ \

;

OH

/
2:

15‘ The compound of claim 14, wherein R7 is phenyl,
pyridyl. pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, pyrazjnyl, or naphthyl,
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky-
lamjno, dialkylamjno, (C1-C3)alky1 optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuoro, and (Cl-C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro.

2\
€02

164 The compound ofcla1m14, wherein the compound is: 17‘ The compound of claim 1’ having formula (III-d):

(III-d)

c1 00 / . \O /|

N\/\/\ \
0 N
US 2019/0031685 A1
79

18‘ The compound of claim 17, wherein R1 is

\
\

N—e NH

19‘ The compound of claim 17, wherein R7 is phenyl,
pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, pyrazinyl, or naphthyl,
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky-
lamino, dialkylaniino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro,

20‘ The compound of claim 17, wherein the compound is:

c1 N/ﬁ / I
Cl k/NNO \h \ \
N‘NH,
/ IN
\ /
N
OMe Q \ I
NO N \ \
N\NH,
/ N
\ |

\

N‘NH,
/
NO I
013: N\/\/\O \N \ \

N\NH, or

N/ﬁ / I
C1 K/NNO \N \ \
N\NH

Jan. 3], 2019

21. The compound of claim 1, wherein Q is

NR-

22. The compound of claim 1, having formula (IV-a):

(lVra)

N\/\/\O

0H

23, The compound of claim 22, wherein Ring AI is a
benzo or thieno ring, each of which is optionally substituted
with one to three substituents, independently selected from
halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C 1-C3)alkyl option-
ally substituted With one or more ﬂuoro, and (C1-C3)alkoxyl
optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuorol

24. The compound of claim 22, wherein the compound is:

/
N\/\/\ \ ’
0 N
on
MeO /
mw \ ’
o N
‘ OH
u /
N\/\/\ \
o N
0H
NC /
N\/\/\ \ ’
o N
OH
F /
NW\ \
o N
OH
CF; /
mw \
0 N

OH
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0414] This compound was prepared in 43% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 6-(tri-
ﬂuorometliyl)-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 418 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, DMSO-ds): 8 11.95 (s, 1H), 7,96 (d, J:8,4 Hz, 1H),
7,81 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.43 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 2H), 7127(d,.l:8.0
Hz, 1H), 6.64 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.35 (d, J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 4.36
(t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 2.88 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.68
(t, J:5.2 Hz, 2H), 2.53 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.80 (m, 2H), 1.67
(in, 2H).

59. Synthesis of 7—(4-(6-chloro-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)-l,8—naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
(Compound 59)

[0415]

Compound59
Cl
I \ \
N\/\/\ /
0 N IrV O
H

[0416] This compound was prepared in 37% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using
6-chloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. Ms (ESI): m/z 384 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz,CDC13): 8 9,41 (bs, 1H), 7,71 (d, 1:84 Hz, 1H), 7,63
(:1, 1:96 Hz, 1H), 7.08 (d, 1:60 Hz, 2H), 6.95 (d, 1:88 Hz,
1H), 6.59 (d, 1:88 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d, 1:912 Hz, 2H), 4.40 (t,
J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.67 (s, 2H), 2.91 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.78 (t,
1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.63 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.80 (m, 4H).

60. Synthesis of 7—(4-(5-chloro-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)-1,8—naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
(Compound 60)

[0417]

Compound 60
C1

[0418] This compound was prepared in 42% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using
5-chloro-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 384 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDClS): 6 9.59 (bs, 1H), 7.70 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.62
(:1, 1:92 Hz, 1H), 7.19 (d, J:7.6 Hz, 1H), 706 (t, 1:7.6 Hz,
2H), 6,93 (d, 1:7.2 Hz, 1H), 6159(d, J:8,4 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d,
J:10,0 Hz, 1H), 441 (t, 1:614 Hz, 2H), 3,63 (s, 2H), 288 (t,
J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.78 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.59 (t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H),
1.91-1.74 (m, 4H).

Jan. 31, 2019

61. Synthesis of 7-(4-(5-(triﬁuoromethyl)-3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin-2 ( l H)-yl)butoxy)- l , 8 -naphthyridin-2
(1H)-one (Compound 61)

[0419]

Compound 61

CF;
\ \
N\/\/\ I /
O N If 0

H

[0420] This compound was prepared in 33% yield using

the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 5-(tri-
ﬂuoromethyl)-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 418 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDClS): 6 7.70 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.62 (d, J:9.6 Hz,
1H), 7.46 (m, 1H). 7.20 (m. 2H), 6.58 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
6.53 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.42 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.69 (s, 2H),
3.06 (t, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.76 (t, J:610 Hz, 2H), 259 (t, J:7.2
Hz, 2H), 1,88 (m, 2H), 1.79 (m, 2H),

62. Synthesis of 2-(4-((7-oxo-7,8-dihydro-l,8-naph-
thyridin-2—yl)oxy)butyl)—1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquino-
line-5-carbonitrile (Compound 62)

[0421]

Compound 62

CN
\ \
N\/\/\ I /
O N 1? O

H

[0422] This compound was prepared in 41% yield using

the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 1,2,
3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-5-carbonitrile as the amine start-
ing material, MS (ESI): m/z 375 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC],): 8 9.46 (s, 1H), 7.72 (d, 1:84 Hz, 1H), 7.64
(d, 1:10 Hz, 1H), 7.47 (d, 1:7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (m, 2H), 6.60
(d, J:8,4 Hz, 1H), 6.53 (d, J .6 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (1. 1:64 Hz,
2H), 3.65 (s, 2H), 3.07 (t, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.81 (1, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.61 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.86 (m, 2H), 1.80 (m, 2H).

63. Synthesis of 7-(4—(8-(triﬂuoromethyl)—3,4—dihy-

droisoquinolin-2(1H)—yl)butoxy)— 1 ,8-naphthyridin-2
(1H)-one (Compound 63)

   

[0423]
Compound 63
I \ \
N\/\/\ /
o N 1|\I 0
CF; H
US 2019/0031685 A1

391 Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-6,7-

dihydro—2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)bu-

toxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(l H)-one (Compound
39)

[0367]

Compound 39

[0368] This compound was prepared in 39% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-
4.5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 447] [M+H]+1 NMR (400
MHz, CDCIS): as 7.55-7.50 (m, 4H), 7.05 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
6.97-6.93 (m, 2H), 6.55-6.52 (dd, :20 Hz, J2:2.4 Hz, 1H),
6.30 (d, J:2.8 Hz, 1H), 3.99 (1, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.67 (brs,
2H), 2.94-2.88 (m, 6H), 2.69-2.60 (m, 4H), 1.86-1.85 (m,
4H).

40. Synthesis of N-(6-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)-yl)butoxy)pyridin-2-yl)acetamide (Compound

40)
[0369]
CUCE c 1360K
t 13.1011
40-1
c1 N O\/\/\ TsCl
\ OH TEA
| —’
/
40-2

c1 N 0\/\/\
I \ ECG
/

—>
Pd(dppf)C12

UONUU
CSZC03
UNUU n

PMBNIIZ

Jan. 31, 2019

-continued

I N\ 0\/\/\N
U
406
H
\n/N N\ 0\/\/\N
0 I /

Compound 40

HZN

(a) Synthesis of 4-(6-chloropyridin-2-yloxy)butan-
1-01 (40-2)

[0370] A mixture of compound 40-1 (3.0 g, 20.4 mmol,
10 eq.), butane-l, 4-diol (2139 g, 26.5 mmol, 13 eqo), and
potassium ten-butanolate (4.57 g, 408 mmol, 20 eq.) in 100
mL of ten-butanol was heated to 90° C. for 2 h. The mixture

was evaporated to remove tert-butanol and then quenched
with 80 mL of water. The mixture was extracted with 30 mL
of ethyl acetate twice. The organic phase was washed with
brine, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and evaporated
to give the crude product, which was puriﬁed by cohnnn
chromatography (silica gel, petroleum ether to ethyl acetate/
petroleum ether:1/3) to aﬁord 4-(6-chloropyridin-2-yloxy)
butan-l-ol as a colorless oil (2.7 g, yield: 65.9%). MS (ESI):
m/z 202 [M+H]*.

(b) Synthesis of 4-(6-chloropyridin-2-yloxy) butyl
4-methy1benzenesulfonate (40-3)

[0371] To a solution of compound 40-2 (2.6 g, 12.9 mmol,
10 eq.) and triethylamine (1.44 g, 14.2 mmol, 1.1 eq.) in 25
mL of dichloromethane, was added 4-methylbenzene-1-
sulfonyl chloride (2.47 g, 130 mmol, 10 eq.) in 20 mL of
chloromethane dropwise at 0° C The mixture was stirred at
room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated to
aﬁord the crude product, which was puriﬁed by column
chromatography (silica gel, ethyl acetate/petroleum etheFl/
8) to give 4-(6-chloropyridin-2-yloxy)butyl 4-methylbenze-
nesulfonate as a colorless oil (3.5 g, yield: 763%)

(c) Synthesis of 2-(4-(6-chloropyridin-2-yloxy)
butyl)-l, 2, 3, 4-tetrahydro-isoquinoline (40-4)

[0372] A mixture of compound 40-3 (3.5 g, 986 mmol,
10 eq.) and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-isoquinoline (6.56 g, 48.3
mmol, 50 eq.) in tert-butanol (50 mL) was heated at 120° C.
for 4 h. The mixture was quenched with 100 mL of brine and
extracted with 30 mL of ethyl acetate twice. The organic
phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous sodium
sulfate and evaporated to give the crude product, which was
puriﬁed by column chromatography (silica gel, ethyl
acetate/petroleum ether:1/5) to aﬁord 2-(4-(6-chloropyri-
din-2-y10xy)butyl)—1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-isoquinoline as a yel-
low oil (3.0 g, yield: 965%). MS (ESI): m/z 319, 317
[M+H]‘.

(d) Synthesis of 6-(4-(3, 4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(l H)-y1)butoxy)-N-(4-methoxy-benzyl)—pyridin-2-
amine (40-5)
[0373] A mixture of compound 40-4 (1.0 g, 3.16 nunol,
1.0 eq.), (4—methoxyphenyl) methanamine (2.16 g, 15.8
US 2019/0031685 A1
-continued
Cl

/ |

N\/\/\0 \N \ \

N‘NH, or

/ |

N\/\/\O \N /

NH.
N§/

41, A pharmaceutical composition comprising a com-
pound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
excipient, diluent, or carrier

42, The pharmaceutical composition of claim 41, which
further comprises one or more additional active agents,

43, A method of treating, preventing, or managing a CNS
or neurological disorder, comprising administering to a
subject a therapeutically or prophylactically eifective
amount of a compound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof,

44, The method of claim 43, wherein the disorder is
Parkinson’s disease, movement disorder, ataxia, dystonia,
essential tremor, Huntington’s disease, multiple system atro-
phy, myoclonus, progressive supranuclear palsy, rett syn-
drome, secondary parkinsonism, spasticity, tardive dyskine-
sia, \Vllson’s disease, dyskinesia, or restless leg syndrome,

45, The method of claim 43, wherein the disorder is
schizophrenia, psychosis, schizophrenia-related disorder,
schizophrenia spectrum disorder, acute schizophrenia,
chronic schizophrenia, NOS schizophrenia, schizoaffective
disorder, schizophreniform disorder, paraphrenia, paranoid
personality disorder, schizoid personality disorder, schizo-

84

Jan. 3], 2019

typal personality disorder, delusional disorder, a disease
having a psychosis component, psychotic disorder, brief
psychotic disorder, Alzheimer’s psychosis, Parkinson’s psy-
chosis, shared psychotic disorder, substance-induced psy-
chotic disorder, psychotic disorder due to a general medical
condition, psychoaifective disorder, aggression, delirium,
excitative psychosis, Tourette’s syndrome, manic disorder,
organic psychosis, or NOS psychosis,

46. The method of claim 43, wherein the disorder is
aﬁective disorder; depression; major depressive episode of
the mild, moderate or severe type; a manic or mixed mood
episode; a hypomanic mood episode; a depressive episode
with atypical features; a depressive episode with melan-
cholic features; a depressive episode with catatonic features;
a mood episode with postpartum onset; post-stroke depres-
sion; major depressive disorder; unipolar depression; treat-
ment resistant depression; dysthymic disorder, minor
depressive disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder; post-
psychotic depressive disorder of schizophrenia; a major
depressive disorder superimposed on a psychotic disorder; a
bipolar disorder; bipolar I disorder; bipolar II disorder;
cyclothymic disorder; seasonal affective disorder; attention
deﬁcit disorder; or attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder,

47. The method of claim 43, wherein the disorder is
addiction or substance abuse or dependency,

48. The method of claim 43, wherein the disorder is
posttraumatic stress disorder, behavior disorder, neurode-
generative disease, Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, mood
disorder, anxiety, obsessive—compulsive disorder, vertigo,
pain, neuropathic pain, sensitization accompanying neuro-
pathic pain, inﬂammatory pain, ﬁbromyalgia, migraine, cog-
nitive disorder, cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment
associated with schizophrenia, cognitive deﬁcit in Alzheim-
er’s disease, cognitive deﬁcit in Parkinson’s disease, mul-
tiple sclerosis, sleep disorder, eating disorder, or autism.

49, The method of claim 43, further comprising admin-
istering to the subject a second active agent,

*****
US 2019/0031685 A1

68. Synthesis of 7-(4-(3,4-dihyd.roisoquinolin-2
(1 H)-y1)butoxy)-3 ,4 -dihydro-l ,8-naphthyridin-2
(1H)-one (Compound 68)

[0433]

I Pd/C

HO\/\/\ /
O N N
H

522 68-1

(a) Synthesis of 7-(4-hydroxybutoxy)-3,4-dihydro-1,
8-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (68-1)

[0434] To a mixture of 7-(4-hydroxybutoxy)-1,8-naphthy-
ridin-2(lH)-one (52-2) (234 mg, 1 mmol) and 10% dry Pd/C
(20 mg) in methanol (10 mL), was added concentrated
hydrochloric acid (0.5 mL). The mixture was stirred at 50°
C. overnight under hydrogen. The mixture was ﬁltered, and
the ﬁltrate was concentrated to dryness to give compound
68-1 (200 mg, 85% yield) as a yellow solid. MS (ESI): m/z
237 [M+H]‘.

(b) Synthesis of 4-(7-oxo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,8-
naphthyridin-Z-yloxy)buty1 methanesulfonate (68-2)

[0435] To a solution of 7-(4-hydmxybutoxy)-3,4-dihydro-
l,8-naphthyridin-2(lH)-0ne (68-1) (200 mg, 0.84 mmol)
and triethylamine (254 mg, 2.52 mmol) in dichloromethane
(10 mL) stirred at 0° C, was added methanesulfonyl chlo-
ride (192 mg, 1.68 mmol), and the mixture was stirred at
room temperature for 16 h. Water was added and the
aqueous phase was extracted with dichloromethane (20
mLx3), and the combined organic phase was dried over
sodium sulfate and concentrated to afford compound 68-2
(192 mg, 80% yield) as a yellow oil. MS (ESI): m/z 315
[M+H]*.

(c) Synthesis of 7-(4-(3.4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1 H)-y1 )butoxy)-3 ,4 -dihyd.m-1 ,8-naphthyr1din-2
(1H)-one (Compound 68)

[0436] To a mixture of 4-(7—oxo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,8-
naphthyridin-2-yloxy)butyl methanesulfonate (68-2) (32
mg, 0.1 mmol), potassium carbonate (138 mg, 1 mmol) and
1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (14 mg, 0.1 mmol) in
acetonitrile (4 mL), was added sodium iodide (15 mg, 0.1
mmol). After stirring at 80° C. for 5 h, the reaction mixture
was ﬁltered and the ﬁltrate was concentrated The residue
was puriﬁed by prep-HPLC to give Compound 68 (18 mg,
51% yield) as a yellow solid. MS (ESI): m/z 352 [M+H]*.

HO\/\/\ m MSO\/\/\
o N g 0

Jan. 31, 2019

1H NMR (400 MHz, c003); a 7.55 (b5, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.4
Hz, 1H), 7.11 (m, 3H), 7.01 (m, 1H), 6.35 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
4.23 (1, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.67 (s, 2H), 2.92 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H),
2.86 (t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.77 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.62 (m, 4H),

1.81 (m, 4H).
m
l /
N N 0
H

»2

1

CO m
N\/\/\0 N/ N 0

H

O
8

6

Compound 68

69. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyri-
din-5(4H)-y1)butoxy)—3,4-dihydro-1 ,8-naphthyridin—
2(1H)-one (Compound 69)

[0437]
Compound 69
S \
\ I N\/\/\ I /
0 N N 0

[0438] This compound was prepared in 24% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 4,5,
6,7-tetrahydr0thieno[3,2-c]pyridine as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 358 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC13): 6 7.72 (bs, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (d,
.148 Hz, 1H), 6.72 (d, J:5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.34 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
2H), 4.23 (t, J:6.0 HZ, 2H), 3.59 (s, 2H), 2.92-2.81 (m, 6H),
2.63 (dd, J‘:7.6 Hz, J2:14.8 Hz, 2H), 1.83-1.73 (m, 4H).

70. Synthesis of 7-(4-(4,5-dihydrothieno[2,3-c]pyri-
din-6(7H)-y1)butoxy)—3,4-dihydro-1,8-naphthyridin-
2(1H)-one (Compound 70)

[0439]
Compound 70
/ \
I N\/\/\ I /
S o N 1|: 0
H
US 2019/0031685 A1
-continued
H'N\N
\ i N 0N
| \ N
/
Compound 44

[0383] A microwave vial was charged with 2-(4-(6-chlo-
ropyridin-Z-yloxy)butyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline
(compound 40-4) (145 mg, 0.46 mmol), 1H-pyrazol-3-
ylboronic acid (154 mg, 1.38 mrnol), 1,1‘-bis(dipheny1phos-
phjno)ferrocene]dichloro-palladium (11) (20 mg), and
cesium carbonate (450 mg, 1.38 mmol) in 1,4-dioxane (1
mL) and N,N-dimethy1formamide (1 mL). The mixture was
stirred at 110° C. for 1.5 h under microwave irradiation The
resulting mixture was concentrated to give a residue, which
was puriﬁed by reverse-phase column chromatography (ac-
etonitrile/water:24/76, with 0.1% triﬂuoroacetic acid) and
then prep-HPLC to afford Compound 44 as a yellow oil (18
mg, yield: 11%). MS (ESI): m/z 349[M+H]*.1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC],): 5 759-763 (n1, 2H), 7.25-7.26 (m, 1H),
7.08-7.13 (m, 3H), 7.01-7.03 (m, 1H), 6.71 (d, 1:2 Hz, 1H),
6.67 (d, J:8 Hz, 1H), 4.42 (I. J:6.4 Hz, 2H). 3.67 (s, 2H),
2.92 (t, 1:6 Hz, 2H), 2.77 (t, 1:6 Hz, 2H), 2.61 (t, J:7.2 Hz,
2H), 1.86-1.93 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.84 (m, 2H).

45. Synthesis of 2-(4-((6—(1H-pyrazo1-3-y1)pyridin-
2-y1)oxy)buty1)—5-chloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquino—
line (Compound 45)

[0384]

Compound 45

 

C1

[0385] This compound was prepared in 52% yield using
the procedures described for Compounds 40 and 44 but
using 5-chloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 383 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIB): 5 7.58-7.62 (m, 2H), 7.22-7.27 (m, 1H), 7.18
(d, H; Hz, 1H), 7.05 (1,]:8 Hz, 1H), 6.92 (d, H; Hz, 1H),
6.72 (br, 1H), 6.66 (d, H; Hz, 1H), 4.41 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H),
3.62 (s, 2H), 2.87 (t, J:6 Hz, 2H), 2.77 (t, J:6 Hz, 2H), 2.59
(t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.85-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.74-1.80 (m, 2H).

Jan. 31, 2019

46. Synthesis of 1-(4-((6-(1H-pyrazol-3-yl)pyridin-
2-y1)oxy)buty1)—4-(2,3-dic1ﬂoropheny1)piperazine
(Compound 46)

[0386]

Compound 45

C1
C1

 

[0387] This compound was prepared in 29% yield using
the procedures described for Compounds 40 and 44 but
using 1-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazine as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 446 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDCls): 6 7.60-7.64 (m, 2H), 7.25-7.27 (m, 1H), 7.11-7.16
(m, 2H), 6.93-6.98 (m, 1H), 6.72 (d, J:2 Hz, 1H), 6.67 (d,
J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (t, J:6 Hz, 2H), 3.08 (br, 4H), 2.67 (br,
4H), 2.51 (t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.83-1.92 (m, 2H), 1.70-1.78
(m, 2H).

47. Synthesis of 1-(4-((6-(1H-pyrazol-3-y1)pyridin-
2-yl)oxy)butyl)-4-(3-methoxypyridin-2-y1)piperazine
(Compound 47)

[0388]

Compound 47

OMe

 

[0389] This compound was prepared in 76% yield using
the procedures described for Compounds 40 and 44 but
using 1-(3-methoxypyridin-2-y1)pipera2ine as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 409 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCls): 6 7.88 (dd, 1J4}; Hz, 2J:1.2 Hz, 1H),
7.59-7.63 (m, 2H), 7.26-7.27 (in, 1H), 7.02 (dd, ‘J:8 Hz,
21:1.2 Hz, 1H), 6.82 (dd, {1:82 Hz, 21:5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.73
(br, 1H), 6.66 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.39 (t, J:6 Hz, 2H), 3.84
(s, 3H), 3.44 (br, 4H), 2.64 (t, 1:4.8 Hz, 4H), 2.49 (t, J:7.6
Hz, 2H), 1.82-1.89 (m, 2H), 1.71-1.77 (m, 2H)
US 2019/0031685 A1

mmol, 50 eq.), 1,1‘-bis(diphenylphosphino)-ferrocene-pal-
ladium (II) dichloride dichloromethane (260 mg, 0.316
mmol, 0.1 eq.), and cesium carbonate (3.08 g, 9.48 mmol,
3.0 eq,) in 20 mL 0 dioxane was heated at 110° C. under
nitrogen for 4 h, The mixture was quenched with 30 mL of
water and extracted with 20 mL of ethyl acetate twice. The
organic phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous
sodium sulfate and evaporated to give the crude product,
which was puriﬁed y column chromatography (silica gel,
ethyl acetate/dichloromethane:ll4) to aﬂord 6-(4-(3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin—2(1H)—yl)butoxy)-N—(4-methoxy-benzyl)-
pyridin-2—amine as a yellow oil (800 mg, yield: 607%). MS
(ESI): m/z 418 [M+{]‘.

(e) Synthesis of 6-(4-(3, 4-dihydroisoquinolin—2
(1H)-yl)butoxy)pyridin—2-amine (40-6)

[0374] Amixture of compound 40-5 (800 mg, 1.92 mmol,
1.0 eq) and 2,2,2-trifuoroacetic acid (20 mL) was heated to
reﬂux overnight. The mixture was cooled and evaporated to
remove 2,2,2-triﬂuoroacetic acid and quenched with aque-
ous sodium bicarbonate to pH 7-8. The mixture was
extracted with 5 m- of chloromethane three times, The
organic phase was washed with brine, dried over anhydrous
sodium sulfate and evaporated to dryness in vacuum to
aﬁord 6-(4—(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)pyri-
din-2-amine as a brown oil (566 mg, yield: 99.5%). The
crude product was used in next steps without further puri-
ﬁcation. MS (ESI): m/z 298 [M+H]*.

 

(t) Synthesis of N-(6-(4-(3, 4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)-yl)-butoxy)pyridin-2-yl)-acetamide (Com-
pound 40)

[0375] To a mixture of compound 40-6 (30 mg, 0.101
mmol, 10 eq,) and triethylamine (12 mg, 0.121 mmol, 12
eq.) in 1 mL of dichloromethane was added acetyl chloride
(9 mg, 0.11 mmol, 1.] eq) at room temperature The mixture
was stirred at this temperature for 1 h. The mixture was
evaporated to give the crude product, which was puriﬁed
with prep-TLC (silica gel, ethyl acetate/petroleum etheFl/
1) to afford N-(6-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2(1H)—yl)—bu-
toxy) pyridin-2-yl)-acetamide (Compound 40) as a colorless
oil (10 mg, yield: 294%). MS (ESI): m/z 340 [M+H]’. ‘H
NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): 6 7.70 (d, J:7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.64 (bs,
1H), 7.57 (t, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.13-7.08 (m, 3H), 7.02-7.00
(m, 1H), 6.45 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.22 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.65
(s, 2H), 2.91 (t, J:6,0 Hz, 2H), 2.75 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.58
(t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.19 (s, 3H), 1.85-1.80 (m, 2H), 1.78-1.74
(m, 2H),

41. Synthesis of N-(6-(4-(3, 4-dihydroisoquinolin-2

- utox - r1 in- - - ro ionarni e om-
lH ylb y py'd~ 2y] p p' ‘d C
pound 41)

[0376]

Compound 41

ﬁg N\ 0\/\/\N
O U

Jan. 31, 2019

[0377] This compound was prepared in 34% yield by
reacting Compound 40-6 with propionyl chloride. MS (EST):
m/z 354 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHZ, CDClz): 6 7.73 (d,
J:7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.59-7.55 (m, 2H), 7.13-7.08 (m, 3H),
7.02-7.00 (m, 1H), 6.45 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.22 (t, J:6.4 Hz,
2H), 3.64 (s, 2H), 2.91 (t, 1:6.0 HZ, 2H), 2.74 (t, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.58 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.41 (‘1, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H),
1.85-1.74 (m, 4H), 1.25 (5, 1:7.6 Hz, 3H).

42. Synthesis of N-(6-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin—2
(1 H)-yl)butoxy)pyridin-2-yl)methanesulfonamide
(Compound 42)

[0378]

Compound 42

[0379] This compound was prepared in 60% yield by
reacting Compound 40-6 with methanesulfonyl chloride.
MS (ESI): m/z 376 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD3OD):
6 7.57 (t, J:8.0 HZ, 1H), 7.12-7.10 (m, 3H), 7.07-7.04 (m,
1H), 6.49 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.42 (d, J:8.0 HZ, 1H), 4.35 (t,
J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.69 (s, 2H), 3.31 (s, 3H), 2.94 (t, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.82 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.63 (t, J:8.0 Hz, 2H), 1.87-1.77
(m, 4H)

43. Synthesis of N-(6-(4-(3, 4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)-yl)butoxy)pyridin-2-yl)-ethanesulfonamide
(Compound 43)

[0380]
Compound 43
g N O
/\S/ \ \/\/\N
O// \\O l
/

[0381] This compound was prepared in 43% yield by
reacting Compound 40-6 with ethanesulfonyl chloride. MS
(ESI): m/z 390 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD3OD): 6
7.56 (t, J:8,0 Hz, 1H), 7.14-7.10 (m, 3H), 7.07-7.05 (m,
1H), 6.51 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.42 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.35 (t,
1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.69 (s, 2H), 3.49 (q, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.93 (t,
1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.81 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.62 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
1H), 1.84-1.81 (m, 4H), 1.35 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 3H).

44. Synthesis of 2-(4-((6-(1H-pyrazol-3-yl)pyridin-
2-yl)oxy)butyl)- l , 2,3 , 4-tetrahydroisoquinoline
(Compound 44)
[0382]

l-TN'N [OH

c1 N 0\/\/\ [\>—B\
I \ N \ 0H
Pd(dppi)Clz, 051003

4074
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0424] This compound was prepared in 29% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 8-(tri-
ﬂuoromethyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 418 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDClS): 6 9.66 (bs, 1H), 7.70 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.62
(d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.44 (d, 1:7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.28-7.19 (m, 2H),
6.59 (d, J:8.4 Hz,1H), 6,52 (d, J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (t, J:6,4
Hz, 2H), 3.79 (s, 2H), 2.97 (t, J:5,6 Hz, 2H), 2.77 (t, J:6,0
Hz, 2H), 2.62 (t, J:6.8 Hz, 2H). 1.81 (m, 4H).

64. Synthesis of 2-(4-((7-0xo-7,8-dihydro-l,8-naph-
thyridin-2-yl)oxy)butyl)-l ,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquino-
line-8-carbonitrile (Compound 64)

[0425]
Compound 64
\ \
N\/\/\ I /
0 N 1'7 0
CN H

[0426] This compound was prepared in 49% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 1,2,
3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-8-carbonitrile as the amine start-
ing material. Ms (ESI): m/z 375 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): as 9.31 (s, 1H), 7.71 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.63
(0, 1:9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.45 (d, 1:7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.33 (d, J:7.6 Hz,
1H), 7.21 (1, 1:7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.61 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d,
J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (1, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.81 (s, 2H), 2.93 (1,
J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.77 (1, J:6 Hz, 2H), 2.66 (1, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H),
1.86 (rn, 2H), 1.80 (m, 2H).

65. Synthesis of 7-(4-(7-methy1-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)-l,8—naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
(Compound 65)

[0427]
Compound 65
\ \
N\/\/\ I /
0 N 1'1 0
H

[0428] This compound was prepared in 36% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using
7-methyl-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 364 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHZ, CDCIS): 6 9.52 (bs, 1H), 7.71 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.63
(d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (dd, :8.0 Hz, J2:16.8 Hz, 2H), 6.84
(s, 1H), 6.59 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.53 (d, 1:9.6 HZ, 1H), 4.40

Jan. 31, 2019

(1, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.70 (s, 2H), 2.90 (1, 1:52 Hz, 2H), 2.84
(1, H6 Hz, 2H), 2.66 (1, 1:72 Hz, 2H), 2.28 (s, 3H),
1.90-1.81 (m, 4H).

66. Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-phenyl-6,7-dihydro-2H-
pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin—5(411)-yl)butoxy)-1,8-naph-
t]1yridin—2(1H)-one (Compound 66)

[0429]
Compound 66
,N\ \ \
Ph—N l
/ N\/\/\ /
O N I]: O
H
[0430] This compound was prepared in 48% yield using

the procedures described for Compound 52 but using 2-plie-
nyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the
amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 416 [M+H]*. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDC],): 8 9.49 (bs, 1H), 7.71 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
1H), 7.64-7.61 (m, 4H), 7.41 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 7.26-7.21
(m, 1H), 6.59 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (d, J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 4.41
(t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.61 (s, 2H), 2.91 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.85
(t, 1:5.2 Hz, 2H), 2.64 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.74 (m, 4H).

67. Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-(pyridin-2-yl)-6,7—dihydro—
2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-1,8-
naplitliyridin-2(1H)-one (Compound 67)

[0431]

Compound 67

_ / N\/\/\O N/ N

[0432] This compound was prepared in 55% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 52 but using
2-(pyridin-2-yl)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro—2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyri-
dine as the amine starting material, MS (ESI): m/z 417
[M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): 6 9.15 (bs, 1H), 8.36
(dd, J1:1,2 Hz, J2:5,2 Hz, 1H), 8.25 (s, 1H), 7.88 (d, J:8.4
Hz, 1H), 7.78-7.70 (m, 2H), 7.62 (d, J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 7.14-
7.10 (m, 1H), 6.59 (d, 1:8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.51 (d, J:10.0 Hz,
1H), 4.40 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.63 (s, 2H), 2.91 (t, J:5.6 Hz,
2H), 2.86 (t, 1:5.2 Hz, 2H), 2.65 (1, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.64
(m, 4H).
US 2019/0031685 A1

-continued

0,
F
0
Jf H
/
tﬁ‘“ N
O, or
/N I N /
\
0
fr H
/
If, N N
N / 0'

28‘ The compound of claim 1, having formula (IV-e):

€33 / '
N\/\/\O \N

29‘ The compound of claim 28, wherein Ring Ar is a
benzo, pyrazolo, thieno, pyrimido, pyrazino, thiazolo, imi-
dazolo, furano, or pyridazino ring, each of which is option-
ally substituted with one to three substituents, independently
selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-
C3)alky1 optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuom,
(C1-C3)a1koxyl optionally substituted with one or more
ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally substi-
tuted pyridylt

30‘ The compound of claim 28, wherein the compound is:

03 m
N\/\/\0 N/ N O,

|
H

S \ \
\l N l/
\/\/\0 N N o.

|
H

(IV-c)

N
H

Jan.3l,2019
81

-continued

Q Nome.

/ 733 m
N\/\/\O N/ E 0’

I m

\Oj‘K/mo N N O

H

7:10 m
N\/\/\0 N N 9

Cl
I \ \
N\/\/\ /
o N N O,
H
CF;
\ \
N\/\/\ I /
0 N N 0,
H
CN
I \ \
N\/\/\ /
0 N T 0,
H
I \ \
N\/\/\ /
0 N N 0,
CF; H
US 2019/0031685 A1

Jan. 31, 2019

56

801 Synthesis of 2-(4-((7-oxo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-l,
8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)butyl)-l ,2,3,4-tetrahy-
droisoquinoline-8-carboniu'ile (Compound 80)

[0459]

Compound 80

CN H

[0460] This compound was prepared in 51% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 1,2,
3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-8-carbonitrile as the amine start-
ing material. Ms (ESI): m/z 377 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIB): a 765 (hrs, 1H), 7.46-7.45 (m, 1H), 7.35 (t,
J:8.6 Hz, 2H), 7.22 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.37 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
1H), 4.24 (1, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.81 (s, 2H), 2.93 (t, H}; Hz,
2H), 2.86 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.76 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.66-2.62
(m, 4H), 1.84-1.73 (m, 4H).

81. Synthesis of 7-(4-(7-methy1-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydro-1.8-naphthyri-
din-2(1H)-one (Compound 81)

[0461]

Compound 81

m m
N\/\/\O N/ T O
H

0

H
/\/\/O N N\(
H0 \ MsCl, 13th

l NH—>

/

834

[0462] This compound was prepared in 41% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using
7-methy1-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. MS (EST): m/z 366 [M+H]*. lH N'MR (400
MHz, CDClB): 5 7.69 (bs, 1H), 7.34 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.98
(d, J:7,6 Hz, 1H), 6,93 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6,83 (s, 1H), 6.35
(d, J:8,0 Hz, 1H), 423 (t, 1:614 Hz, 2H), 3,59 (s, 2H), 2.85
(t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 272 (t, J:6,0 Hz, 2H), 264 (t, J:7.6 Hz,
2H), 2.56 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.28 (s, 3H), 1.86-1.72 (m, 4H).

82. Synthesis of 7-(4—(2-phenyl-6,7-dihydro—2H-
pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-di-
hydro-1,8-napht.hyridjn—2(1H)—one (Compound 82)

[0463]

Compound 32

[0464] This compound was prepared in 28% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 2-phe-
nyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro—2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the
amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 418 [M+H]*. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDClB): 6 7.67 (bs, 1H), 7.61 ((1, F68 Hz,
3H), 7,43 (m, 2H), 7,35 (d, 1:810 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (t, 1:7.6 Hz,
1H), 6.35 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 423 (t, J:6,4 Hz, 2H), 3,61 (s,
2H), 2.91 (1, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2187-2183 (m, 4H), 2.65-2.61
(m, 4H), 1.85-1.73 (m, 4H).

83. Synthesis of 8-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)-yl)butoxy)-4,5-dihydro-lH-pyrido[2,3-d][l,3]
diazepin-2(3H)-one (Compound 83)

[0465]

[3 0

Ms 0 N

\O/\/\/ \ \(
| NH

CO \
I NH
N\/\/\o N/ 11:11 ’<
0

Compound 33
US 2019/0031685 A1

24, Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-methyl-6,7-dihydro-2H-
pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin—5(4H)—yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihyd-
roquino]in-2(lH)-one (Compound 24)

[0337]
Compound 24
O
H
\
N N \I‘
o
\ N\

[0338] This compound was prepared in 48% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-methyl-4,5,6,7-
tetrahydro-ZH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the starting mate-
rial. MS (ESI): m/z 355 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC];): 8 801 (hrs, 1H), 7.07-7.03 (rn, 2H), 6.54-6.51 (dd,
J‘:2.8 Hz, J2:2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.33 (d, 1:24 Hz, 1H), 397 (t,
1:60 Hz, 2H), 3.84 (s, 3H), 3.53 (s, 2H), 2.90 (1, 1:72 Hz,
2H), 2.80 (s, 4H), 2.64-2.59 (m, 4H), 1.87-1.72 (m, 4H).

25, Synthesis of 7-(4-(7,8-dihydmpyrid0[3,4-b]
pyrazin-6(5H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2
(lH)-one (Compound 25)

[0339]

Compound 25

@HQ.)

[0340] This compound was prepared in 57.6% yield as a
light brown solid as described for Compound 23 but using
5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-b]pyrazine as the starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 353 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDCls): 6 8.92 (brs, 1H), 836-832 (dd, 11:24 Hz, 12:24
Hz, 2H), 7.03-7.01 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.52-6.50 (dd, 1:2.4
Hz, J2:2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.38 (d, 1:24 Hz, 1H), 398-395 (I,
1:56 Hz, 2H), 3.77 (s, 2H), 3.09-3.06 (t, 1:56 Hz, 2H),
2.90-2.85 (m, 4H), 2.67-2.59 (m, 4H), 1.86-1.76 (m, 4H).

26. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6,7—dihydrothiazolo[5,4-c]
pyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2
(lH)-one (Compound 26)

[0341]

Compound 26
0
1

$313.1

42

Jan. 3], 2019

[0342] This compound was prepared in 43% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrot.hi-
azolo[5,4-c]pyridine as the smrting material. MS (ESI): m/z
358 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCla): 6 8.64 (s, 1H),
8,44 (s, 1H), 7.04 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 653-651 (dd, J‘:2l4
Hz, J2:2.0 HZ, 1H), 6.36 (d, 1:2.0 HZ, 1H), 3.97 (t, #60
Hz, 2H), 3.79 (s, 2H), 3.00-2.97 (m, 2H), 2.94-2.85 (m, 4H),
2.68 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.64-2.58 (m, 2H), 1.88-1.75 (m.
4H),

27. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyri-
din-5(4H)-y1)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin—2(l H)-
one (Compound 27)

[0343]

Compound 27

[0344] This compound was prepared in 48.9% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroth-
ieno[3,2-c]pyridine as the starting material. MS (ESI): m/z
357 [MzH]*, 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCls): 6 7,69 (s, 1H),
7.11 (d, J:5.2 Hz, 1H), 7.05 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.74 (d, 1:4.8
Hz, 1H), 6.54-6.52 (dd, :24 Hz, 12:24 Hz, 1H), 6.30 (d,
J:2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.98 (1, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.66 (s, 2H), 2.95-
2.89 (m, 6H), 2.70-2.61 (m, 2H), 1.87-1.84 (m, 4H).

28o Synthesis of 7-(4-(4,5-dihydrothieno[2,3-c]pyri-
din-6(7H)-y1)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin—2(l H)-
one (Compound 28)

[0345]
Compound 28
O
H
\N N
0 / t
s
[0346] This compound was prepared in 39% yield as

described for Compound 23 but using 4,5,6,7—tetrahydrot.h-
ieno[2,3-c]pyridine as the starting material. MS (ESI): m/z
357 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC];): 8 8.20 (brs, 1H),
7.10-7.04 (dd, 114,8 Hz, 12:80 Hz, 1H), 6.79 (d, 1:5.2 Hz,
1H), 655-652 (dd, 11:24 Hz, 1:24 Hz, 1H), 6.33 (d, 1:20
Hz, 2H), 3.98 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.71 (s, 2H), 2.90 (1, 1:68
Hz, 2H), 2.82-2.74 (m, 4H), 2.65-2.61 (m, 4H), 1.89-1.73
(m, 4H).
US 2019/0031685 A1

29. Synthesis of 7-(4-(4-(dimethylamino)-5,6-dihy-
dropyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidin-7(8H)-yl)but0xy)-3,4-
dihydroquinolin-2(l H)-one (Compound 29)
[0347]

Compound 29

O \
I

}\N —\—\¥N N
O / \N
N:/

[0348] This compound was prepared in 27% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using N,N—dimethy1-5,6,7,
S-tetrahydropyrido[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-amine as the starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 396.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDCIS): o 8.46 (s, 1H, 791 (hrs, 1H), 7.05 (d, 1:8.0 Hz,
1H), 6.55-6.52 (dd, J :24 Hz, J2:2.8 Hz, 1H), 6.32 (d,
1:2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.98 (1, 1:56 Hz, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 3.07 (s,
6H), 2.90 (1, H2 Hz. 2H), 2.80 (1, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.67-2.57
(m, 6H), 1.80-1.74 (m, 4H).

30. Synthesis of 7-(4-(2-phenyl-6,7—dihydro-2H-
pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridir1-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihyd-
roquinolin-2(lH)-one (Compound 30)

[0349]
Compound 30
o
H
\
N N \N
0 \ L
\ Ph

[0350] This compound was prepared in 42% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 2-phenyl—4,5,6,7-
tetrahydro-ZH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the starting mate-
rial. Ms (ESI): m/z 417.1 [M+H]*. HPLC purity:99%, 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDCIS): a 7.64-7.62 (dd, 11:1.2 Hz,
12:12 Hz, 3H), 7.47-7.41 (m, 3H), 7.25-7.24 (m, 1H), 7.05
(d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.55-6.52 (dd, J‘ :24 Hz, 12:24 Hz, 1H),
6.30 (d, 1:28 Hz, 1H), 3.99 (1, H6 Hz, 2H), 3.65 (s. 2H),
2.94-2.88 (m, 6H), 2.69-2.60 (m, 4H), 1.88-1.80 (rn, 4H).

31. Synthesis of 7-(4—(1-phenyl-6,7-dihydro-1H-
pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)but0xy)-3 ,4 -dihyd-
roquinolin-2( 1 H)-one (Compound 31)

[0351]
Compound 31
o
H\ H Ph
N N / N/
0 \
/ N

Jan. 31, 2019
43

[0352] This compound was prepared in 39% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using l-phenyl-4,5,6,7-
tetrahydm-lH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the starting mate-
rial. MS (ESI): m/z 417.1 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDCIB): 8 7.57 (s, 1H), 7.53-7.44 (m, 5H), 7.34-7.31 (t,
J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (d, 0.1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.56-6.53 (dd,
J1:2.4 Hz, J2:2,4 Hz, 1H), 6.30 (d, J:2,4 Hz, 1H), 3.99 (t,
J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.61 (s, 2H), 2.93-2.82 (m, 6H), 2.70-2.61
(m, 4H), 1.90-1.74 (m, 4H),

32. Synthesis of 7-(4-(1-(3-chlorophenyl)-6,7-di-
hydro-lH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)—yl)butoxy)-
3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(lH)-one (Compound 32)

[0353]

Compound 32

prLa

0

H
\
N
O

[0354] This compound was prepared in 45% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using l-(3-chlorophenyl)-
4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-lH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 451.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCls): 5 7.57 (t, J:1.6 Hz, 1H), 7.53-7.48 (m, 2H),
7.44-7.36 (m, 2H), 7.31-7.28 (m, 1H), 7.06 (d, 1:4.0 Hz,
1H), 6.56-6.53 (dd, J1:2.4 Hz, 12:2.0 Hz, 1H), 6.30 (d,
J:2.4 Hz, 1H), 3.99 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.59 (s, 2H), 2.93-
2.81 (m, 6H), 2.69-2.61 (m, 4H), 1.89-1.76 (m, 4H).

33. Synthesis of 7-(4-(5,6-dihydroimidazo[l,5-a]
pyrazin-7(8H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2
(lH)-one (Compound 33)

[0355]

Compound 33

4%)ch
0 Lg,

[0356] This compound was prepared in 10% yield as
described for Compound 23 but using 5,6,7,8—tetrahydroimi-
dazo[1,5-a]pyrazine as the starting material. MS (ESI): m/z
341.1 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): a 8.15 (s, 1H),
7.41 (s, 1H), 7.05 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.78 (s, 1H), 6.54-6.51
(dd, 11:2.4 Hz, 12:24 Hz, 1H), 6.33 (d, 1:2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.06
(1, H6 Hz, 2H), 3.97 (1, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.68 (s, 2H),
2.92-2.84 (rn, 4H), 2.64-2.60 (m, 4H), 1.88-1.82 (m, 2H),
1.80-1.71 (m, 2H)
US 2019/0031685 A1

(a) Synthesis of 4-(2-oxo-2,3,4,5-tetrahyd.ro-lH-
pyrido[2,3-d] [1 ,3]diazepin-8-yloxy)butyl methane-
sulfonate (83-2)

[0466] To a mixture of 8-(4-hydroxybutoxy)-4,5-dihydro-
1H-pyrido[2,3-d][l,3]diazepin-2(3I*I)-one (580 mg, 2.31
mmol) and triethylamine (700 mg, 6.93 mmol) in dichlo-
romethane (20 mL) stirred at 0° C., was added methanesul-
fonyl chloride (531 mg, 4.62 mmol). The mixture was stirred
at room temperature for 2 h. Water was added and the
aqueous phase was extracted with dichloromethane (50
mLx3). The combined organic phase was dried with sodium
sulfate and evaporated to give 700 mg (92% yield) of
compound 83-2 as a pale white solid. MS (ESI): m/z 330.0
[M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC],): 5 8.43 (s, 1H), 7.37
(d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H). 6.25 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 5.15 (s, 1H), 4.32
(t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.24 (d, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.14-4.10 (m, 2H),
3.0 (s, 3H), 2.99 (s, 2H), 2.0-1.88 (m, 4H).

(b) Synthesis of 8-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)-yl)butoxy)—4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[2,3-d][1,3]
djazepin-2(3H)-one (Compound 83)

[0467] A mixture of 4-(2-oxo-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-lH-
pyrido[2,3-d][l,3]diazepin-8-yloxy) butyl-methanesul-
fonate (83-2) (20 mg, 0.06 mmol), l,2,3,4-tet1ahydroisoqui-
noline (16 mg, 0.12 mmol) and potassium carbonate (25 mg,
0.18 mmol) in acetonitrile (1 mL) was stirred at 80° C. for
3 h. The reaction mixture was ﬁltered. The ﬁltrate was
concentrated and the residue was puriﬁed by prep-TLC
(dichloromethane1methanolq10: l) to give 10 mg (45%
yield) of Compound 83 as a yellow oil. MS (ESI): m/z 367.1
[M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCIS): B 8.48 (s, 1H), 7.35
(d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.15-7.09 (m, 3H), 7.2 (t, 1:5.2 Hz, 1H),
6.25 (1, 14.0112, 1H), 4.23 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.13-4.09 (m,
2H), 3.64 (s, 2H), 2.99 (t, J:8.8 Hz, 2H), 2.91 (t, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.75 (1, F60 HZ. 2H), 2.58 (1, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.74
(m, 4H).

84. Synthesis of 8-(4-(6-ﬂuoro-3,4-dihydroisoquino-
lin-2(1H)—yl)butoxy)-4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[2,3-d]
[1,3]diazepin-2(3I*1)-one (Compound 84)

[0468]
Compound 84
F
\
I NH
N\/\/\ / /<
o N N
H 0

[0469] This compound was prepared in 53% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 83 but using
6-ﬂuoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 385.1 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CD013): 8 8147(5, 1H), 7.34 (d, 1:80 Hz, 1H), 6.96 (t, 1:7.2
Hz, 1H), 6.83-6.78 (m, 2H), 6.24 (d, 1:80 Hz, 1H), 4.22 (t,
J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.12-4.08 (m, 2H), 3.58 (s, 2H), 3.98 (t, 1:8.4
Hz, 2H), 2.88 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.71 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.56
(t, 1:72 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.81 (m, 2H), 1.79—1.72 (m, 2H).

57

Jan. 31, 2019

85. Synthesis of 8-(4-(6-chloro-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin—2(1H)—yl)butoxy)-4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[2,3-
d][1,3]diazepin-2(3I*1)-one (Compound 85)

[0470]

Compound 85

C1 \
| NH
N\/\/\O N ,(

/
N
H o

[0471] This compound was prepared in 38% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 83 but using
6-chloro-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 401.1 [M+H]". 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 6 8.47 (s, 1H), 7.35 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H),
7.16-7.02 (m, 2H), 6.94 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.24 (q, J:4.4 Hz,
8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.22 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 4.11 (1, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H),
3.64 (s, 2H), 2.99 (t, J:8.4 Hz, 2H), 2.87 (1, #56 Hz, 2H),
2.71 (t, J:5,6 Hz, 2H), 2.57 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.79 (m,
2H), 1.78-1.64 (m, 2H).

86. Synthesis of 8-(4-(6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyri-
din-5(4H)—yl)butoxy)-4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[2,3-d]
[1,3]diazepin-2(3H)-one (Compound 86)

[0472]
Compound 35
S \
| |
\ N\/\/\ /
0 N N
H o
[0473] This compound was prepared in 61% yield using

the procedures described for Compound 83 but using 4,5,
6,7-tetrahydrothieno[3,2-c]pyridine as the amine starting
material, MS (ESI): m/z 373.1 [M+H]+. NMR (400 MHz,
CDCls): 5 8.47 (s, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (d,
1:5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.72 (d, J:5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.24 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
1H), 4.22 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.09 (1, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.56 (s,
2H), 2.99 (t, 1:88 Hz, 2H), 2.90 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.80 (1,
1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (t, #72 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.81 (m, 2H),
1179-1172(in, 2H)

87. Synthesis of 8-(4-(4,5-dihydrothieno[2,3-c]pyri-
din-6(7H)—yl)butoxy)-4,5-dihydro-1H-pyrido[2,3-d]
[l,3]diazepin-2(3H)-one (Compound 87)

[0474]
Compound 87
/ \
l | NH
S N\/\/\ /
0 N N
H o
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31,2019
80

-continued -continued

0H <¥\ 0,
—N
s N\/\/\O \N ' 0
OH /Q J—/— /H
N N

Cl N

,or

0H
s
/ \ O,
N\/\/\ \ ' \
0 N
c1:3 OH 0
H
/
N N

25‘ The compound of claim 1, having formula (IV-b): I \

(IV-b) 0
/
—N H
@:j N N/
N
\/\/\o N O. N/ \ 0'

26‘ The compound of claim 25, wherein Ring Ar is a
pyramlo, thjeno, pyrimido, pyrazino, thiamlo, imidazolo,

 

furano, or pyridazino ring, each of which is optionally N/

substituted with one to three substituents, independently 111 /

selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylarnino, (Cr Ph/

C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuom, O
(C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more

ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally substi- Ph 4/ /H
tuted pyridyl‘ \N N N

27 , The compound of claim 25, wherein the compound is:
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31,2019

82
-continued -continued
(H m m
N\/\/\O N N\/\/\O N N o,
H

|
H
Ph—N | \/\/\0 N N 9
I

/N\/\/\/
ONNO

,or

I I»
N H FJC \ \
Q Vfr‘ m N\/\/\ I /
_ / N\/\/\0 N/ N 0- 0 N N 0.
|
H

|
H

mm m
/
31‘ The compound of claim 1, having formula (IV-d): N\/\/\O N N 0,
Cl
(IV-d)
/ l \ \
| N
a N ‘ \/\/\ /
\/\/\0 \N N 0 0 N N 0,
H I
CF}
32‘ The compound of claim 31, wherein Ring Ar is a
benzo, pyrazolo, thieno, pyrimido, pyrazino, thiazolo, imi- \ \
dazolo, furano, or pyridazino ring, each of which is option- I
ally substituted with one to three substituents, independently N\/\/\O N/ N 0
selected from halo“ cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (Cl- I ’
C3)a1ky] optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoio, H
(C 1-C3)a1koxyl optionally substituted with one or more CN
ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally substi-
tuted pyridyli \ \
33‘ The compound of claim 31, wherein the compound is: N I /
W\o N N 0,
\ H
I \ I \ \
N ,
\/\/\ / N /
O N T o, W\0 N N 0
H H

CF;
03 m \ \
N\/\/\O N o. I

\ IL\ CN H
US 2019/0031685 A1

Jan. 3], 2019
-continued
[5- W
5- ﬁ- mesu'n arrestm
Com- cAMP cAMP mestm Mresnn (amag- (smug-
pound (agomst (agonist (agonisl (agonist onist 0mm
Numr mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
ber Compound SLruclure IUPAC Name 13cm“ E

 

mode)
"Mb ECso“ Em} mm“ 1m}
88 c1 g.(4,(5.chlom_ u" u. n. w» n g»
3,4-dihydloiso-
\ qumolm-2(1H)-
| NH
N\/\/\
o

yl)but0xy)—4,5-
/ dihydm—lI-I-
N N’< pyrzdopgr
H o d][1,3]diazepmr
2(3 H)rone

55 MeO \ H446- m. .. .m .
I melhoxyVSAV
N\/\/\
0 N 0

n” n”

dihydrmsor
qumalmrztu
H yl)butoxy)—1,8—
naphthyrldin—
2(1 H )rone

71 M60 \ 7-(4—(6- NA NA NA
N\/\/\ dihydmsu—
0 N O qumolerUH)’

H yljbutoxy),
dihydrorlﬁr
naphmyridm-
2(1H)-one

5 6 F 77(47(57ﬂu0mr NA NA NA NA
\03 m 3,4—dzhydmzso-
N / qumolm—ztu
N0 N H 0 yl)butoxy)—1,8—

naphthyrldin»
2 (1 H)-one

72 F 7r(4r(57ﬂuomr NA NA NA NA
m m 3,4—dzhydmzso-
N qulnolln»2(1H)-
\/\/\0 N 0 yl)butoxy)
H dihydro-l,8
naphthyrldin»
2 (1 HJ-one

57 NC 2-(4-((7—oxo- NA NA NA NA
I 7,87d1hydm71,87
N\/\/\ /
0 N 0

NA an an

   

*xx: xxaa

:u ¥xa$

  

an an

naphthyridin-Z-
Y1)0Xy)butyl)-

H 1,23,47
teuahydmxsor
quuwlme—é—
cmbonxm‘le

73 NC 27(4r((7rox07 NA NA NA NA H
I 5,6,78
N \/\/\
O N 0

xxaa

betrahydro-l ,8-
naphthyrldin— 2-
“ y1)oxy>buty1)-
1,2,3 ,4-

ceuahydroiso-
qumolxnsér
carbonimle

58 F3C 7’(4'(5' m. n .m .
I (Lriﬂuommeﬂr
NW\
0 N 0

w»: n”

yl)-3 ,4»
dihydmxso-
H qumolm-2(1H)-
yl)butoxy)—1.8-
naphthyrldin—
2 (1 HJ-one
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0329] This compound was prepared in 19% yield (last
step) (15 mg) as described for Compound 5 but using
5-chloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the starting mate-
rial. MS (ESI): m/z 383 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCl,): 6 8.00 (d, 1:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.36 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H),
7.28 (d, J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (m, 2H), 7.14 (dd, 11:7.6 Hz,
J2:1.6 Hz, 1H), 7,02 (d, J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (d, J:8.8 Hz,
1H), 4.73 (m, 1H), 4.97 (t, 1:5,6 Hz, 2H), 4,09 (s, 1H), 3.81
(s, 1H), 3.26 (m, 5H), 2.08 (m, 2H), 1.95 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H).

21. Synthesis of 2-(4-(8-(triﬂuoromethyl)-3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin—2(1H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin—8-ol (Com-
pound 21)

[0330]

Compound 21

/ /\/\/N
N O

OH CF3

[0331] This compound was prepared in 32% yield (last
step) (30 mg) as described for Compound 5 but using
8-(triﬂuoromethyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 417.4 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR
(400 MHz,CDC13): ES 8.00-8.02 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.60-7.62
(m, 1H), 738-743 (m, 2H), 725-732 (m, 2H), 7.14-7.16
(m, 1H), 6.89-6.91 (d, 1:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.75 (s, 1H), 4.51 (m,
2H). 4.43 (s, 1H), 3.85 (s, 1H), 3.30 (m, 5H), 2.10 (m, 2H),
1.95 (m, 2H).

22. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-((8-hydroxyquinolin-2-yl)
oxy)butyl)piperazin-1-y1)nicotinonitrile (Compound

22)
[0332]
Compound 22
N / I
\ (\N \
/ /\/\/N\) CN
N 0
OH

[0333] This compound was prepared in 15% yield (last
step) (11 mg) as described for Compound 5 but using
2-(piperazin-1-yl)nicotinonitrile as the starting material. MS
(ESI): m/z 404 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): 6
8.34 (dd, J:2.4 Hz, 4.8 Hz, 1H), 8.00 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.77
(dd, 1:1.6 Hz, 7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.60 (br, 1H), 7.31-7.24 (m, 2H),
7.15 (dd, J:1.6 Hz, 7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.93 (d, 1:88 Hz, 1H), 6.74
(dd, 1:5.2 Hz, 80 Hz, 1H), 4.50 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.78 (t,
J:4.8 Hz, 4H), 2.64 (t, .148 Hz, 4H), 2.52 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H),
1.96-1.89 (m, 2H), 1.81-1.73 (m, 2H).

Jan. 31, 2019

23. Synthesis of 7-(4-(7,8-dihydropyrido[4,3-d]py-
rimidin-6(5H)-y1)butoxy)-3,4—dihydroquinolin-2
(1H)-one (Compound 23)

[0334]
DMF/K2C03
—.
1,4-dibromobutane
HO 0

7142

2371

 

Compound 23

(a) Synthesis of 7-(4-bromobutoxy)—3,4-dihydroqui-
nolin—2(1H)—0ne (23-2)

[0335] To a mixture of 7-hydroxy-3,4-dihyd.roquinolin-2
(1H)-one (23-1) (14.0 g, 85.9 mmol, 10 eq) and potassium
carbonate (17.8 g, 129 mmol, 1.5 eq) in N,N—dimethylfor-
mamide (200 mL) was added 1,4-dibromobutane (46.0 g,
215 mmol, 25 eq). The mixture was stirred at 50° C.
overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into 500 mL of
water, extracted with ethyl acetate (200 mLx2), dried over
sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give the crude
product, which was puriﬁed by silica gel column chroma-
tography (petroleum ether2ethyl acetate:5:1) to give com-
pound 23-2 as a white solid (82 g, yield: 32%). MS (ESI):
m/z 298, 300 [M+H]‘.

(b) Synthesis of 7-(4-(7,8-dihydropyrido[4,3-d]py-
rimidin-6(5H)-y1)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2
(1H)-one (Compound 23)

[0336] To a mixture of compound 23-2 (60 mg, 0.2 mmol,
10 eq) and 5,6,7,8-tetrahydropyrido[4,3-d]pyrimidine
hydrochloride (52 mg, 0.3 mmol, 15 eq) in acetonitrile (10
mL) was added potassium carbonate (83 mg, 0.6 mmol, 30
ecﬂ. The mixture was stirred and reﬂuxed for 4 hours. The
reaction mixture was then concentrated in Vacuo to give the
crude product, which was puriﬁed by reverse phase column
(acetonitrile in water, 40% v/v, with 0.01% aqueous ammo-
nia) to give compound 23 as a white solid. (26 mg, yield:
50%). MS (ESI): m/z 353 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDC],): 5 897 (hrs, 1H), 8.77 (s, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H),
7.04-7.02 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.53-6.50 (dd, J‘:2.4 Hz,
12:2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.37 (d, 1:2.0 Hz, 1H), 3.99-3.96 (t, J:6.0
Hz, 2H), 3.63 (s, 2H), 3.03-3.00 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.91-2.83
(m, 4H), 2.65-2.60 (m, 4H), 1.88-1.75 (m, 4H).
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0450] This compound was prepared in 50% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using
6-chloro-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 386 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC];): 6 7.58 (bs. 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.08
(d, 1:7,2 Hz, 1H), 6.94 (d, 1:88 Hz, 2H), 6.35 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
1H), 4.23 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.60 (s, 2H), 2.89-2.84 (m, 4H),
2.73 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.64 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.58 (t, 1:72
Hz, 2H), 1.85-1.73 (m, 4H).

76. Synthesis of 7-(4-(5-ch10ro-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-y1)butoxy)—3,4-dihydro-1,8-naphthyri-
din-2(1H)-one (Compound 76)

[0451]

Compound 76
c1

[0452] This compound was prepared in 34% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using
5-chloro-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 386 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIS): 8 7.73 (bs, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.62
(d, J:8.0 HZ, 1H), 7.06 (t, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.93 (d, J:7.2 Hz,
2H), 6.34 (d, J:8.0 HZ, 1H), 4.23 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.63 (s,
2H), 2.89-2.83 (m, 4H), 2.78 (t, J:6.4 HZ, 2H), 2.63 (t, J:6.8
Hz, 2H), 2.58 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.84-1.73 (m, 4H).

77. Synthesis of 7-(4-(5-(triﬂuoromethyl)—3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin—2(l H)—yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydro-l ,8-
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (Compound 77)

[0453]
Compound 77
CF;
I \
N\/\/\ /
0 N I|\1 o
H

[0454] This compound was prepared in 36% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 5-(tri-
ﬂuoromethy1)-l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 420 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHZ, CDC13): 5 7.58 (bs, 1H), 7.48 (m, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.0

Jan. 3], 2019

Hz, 1H), 7.20 (m, 2H), 6.35 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.24 (1, J:6.4
Hz, 2H), 3.69 (s, 2H), 3.07 (I, J:5,6 Hz, 2H), 2.86 (t, J:8.0
Hz, 2H), 2.76 (1,]:60 Hz, 2H), 2.64 (1, 1:80 Hz, 2H), 2.58
(1, 1:72 Hz, 2H), 1.80 (in, 4H)

78. Synthesis of 2-(4-((7-0xo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro—l,
8-naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)butyl)—1,2,3,4-tetrahy-
droisoquinnline-5-carbonitrile (Compound 78)

[0455]

Compound 78
CN

[0456] This compound was prepared in 32% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 1,2,
3.4-tetrahydr0isoquinoline-5-carb0nitrile as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 377 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIS): 8 760 (hrs, 1H), 7.48 (dd, J:1.6 Hz, 7.2 Hz,
1H), 7.37 (dd. J:O.8 Hz, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.27-7.20 (m, 2H),
6.36 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.24 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.65 (s, 2H),
3.08 (t, J:5.8 Hz, 2H), 2.87 (t, J:7.4 Hz, 2H), 2.80 (t, 1:6.0
Hz. 2H), 2.67-2.58 (m, 4H), 1.85-1.73 (m, 4H).

79. Synthesis of 7-(4-(8-(triﬂuoromethyl)-3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin-2( l H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydro-l ,8-
naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (Compound 79)

[0457]
Compound 79
\
N\/\/\ I /
0 N T 0
CF; H
[0458] This compound was prepared in 38% yield using

the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 8-(tri-
ﬂuoromethyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 420 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC],): 5 7.64 (bs, 1H), 7.44 (d, 1:72 Hz, 1H), 7.34
(d, 1:80 Hz, 1H), 7.28 (d, 1:7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (m, 1H), 6.35
(d, 1:80 Hz, 1H), 4.24 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.78 (s, 2H), 2.97
(t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.86 (t, J:s.0 Hz, 2H), 2.75 (t, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.62 (m, 4H), 1.80 (m, 4H).
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0440] This compound was prepared in 25% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 4,5,
6,7-tetrahydrothieno[2.3-c]pyridine as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 358 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC/13): B 7.62 (bs, 1H), 7.35 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.08 (d,
J:4.8 Hz, 1H), 6.77 (d, J:5.2 Hz, 1H), 6.34 (d, J:8.4 Hz,
2H), 4.23 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.71 (s, 2H), 2.88-2.75 (m, 6H),
2.63 (dd, J1:8.4 HZ, J2:16.0 Hz, 2H), 1.85-1.70 (m, 4H).

71. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6-methoxy-3,4-dihydroiso-
quinolin-2(1H)—y1)bntoxy)—3,4-dihydro-1,8-naphthy-
ridin-2(1H)—one (Compound 71)

[044 1]
Compound 71
/O \
N\/\/\ I /
o N 1'7 0
H

[0442] This compound was prepared in 37% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using
6-methoxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 382 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC],): 6 7.67 (bs, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.01
(d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.70 (dd, :28 Hz, 12:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.55
(d, J:2,8 Hz, 1H), 6.35 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.23 (t, J:6.4 Hz,
2H), 3.76 (s, 3H), 3.60 (s, 2H), 2.84 (dd, J‘:7.2 Hz, J2:15.6
Hz, 4H), 2.72 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.64 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.56
(t, J:7,2 Hz, 2H), 1.83-1.72 (m, 4H),

72. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6-ﬂuoro-3,4-dihydroisoquino-
lin-2(1H)—yl)butoxy)—3,4-dihydro-1,8—naphthyridin-2
(1H)-one (Compound 72)

[0443]

Compound 72
F
| \
N\/\/\ /
o N I|\I O
H

[0444] This compound was prepared in 41% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using
6-ﬂuoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/Z 370 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDCl,): 6 7.68 (bs, 1H), 7.35 (d, 1:8,4 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (dd,
:61] Hz, 12:80 Hz, 1H), 6.83-6.78 (m, 2H), 5.35 (d, 1:80
Hz, 1H), 4.23 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.58 (s, 2H), 2.90-2.84 (m,
4H), 2.72 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.63 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 2.56 (t,
J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.83-1.72 (m, 4H).

Jan. 31, 2019

73, Synthesis of 2-(4-((7-oxo-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-1,
8»naphthyridin-2-yl)oxy)butyl)—1 ,2,3,4-tetrahy-
droisoquinoline-é-carbonitrile (Compound 73)

[0445]

Compound 73
NC
| \
N\/\/\ /
O N lil O
H

[0446] This compound was prepared in 42% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 1,2,
3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-6-carbonitrile as the amine start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 377 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 6 8.06 (brs, 1H), 7.56-7.52 (m, 2H), 7.40 (d,
J:8,4 Hz, 1H), 7.25 (d, J:8,0 Hz, 1H), 6.34 (d, J:8.0 Hz,
1H), 4.26-3.77 (m, 6H), 3.29-3.25 (m, 4H), 2.88 (t, J:7.6
Hz, 2H), 2.66 (t, 1:7,6 Hz, 2H), 2.07-2.01 (m, 2H), 1.90-
1.85 (m, 2H),

74, Synthesis of 7-(4—(6-(triﬂuoromethy1)—3,4-di11y-
droisoquinolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydro-l ,8-
naphthyridin-2(lH)-one (Compound 74)

[0447]
Compound 74
F C
3 \
N\/\/\ I /
0 N Ii] 0
H
[0448] This compound was prepared in 43% yield using

the procedures described for Compound 68 but using 6-(tri-
ﬂuoromethyl)-l ,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 420 [M+H]+. 1H NMR (400
MHz,CDC13): 8 7.63 (135, 1H), 7.35 (m, 3H), 7.11 (d, J:8.8
Hz, 1H), 6.34 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.23 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.67
(s, 2H), 2.94 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.86 (t, J:8.0 Hz, 2H), 2.76
(1, 1:56 Hz, 2H), 2.60 (m, 4H), 1.77 (m, 4H),

75. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6-chloro-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1 H )—yl)butoxy)—3 ,4 -dihydro-1 ,S-naphthyri-
din-2(1H)-one (Compound 75)

[0449]

Compound 75

”03 ' \
N\/\/\0 N/ N 0

|
H
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0319] This compound was prepared in 11% yield (last
step) (9.8 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 1,2,3,4-tetrahydtoisoquinoline-6-carbonitrile as
the starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 374 [M+H]*. 1H NMR
(400 MHz, CDC],): 6 8.11 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.67 (s, 1H),
7.63 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H),7.40(d,1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.31-7.25 (m,
2H), 7.11-7.07 (m, 1H), 6.96 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.82-4.52
(m, 4H), 3.85-3.33 (m, 4H), 3.25 (s, 2H), 2.13-1.95 (m, 4H).

16. Synthesis of 2-(4-(6-ﬂuoro-3,4-dihydroisoquino-
lin—2(1H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin—8-01 (Compound 16)

[0320]

Compound 16
F
\
/ /\/\/N
N 0

[032]] This compound was prepared in 14% yield (last
step) (12 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 6-ﬂuoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 367 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC]_,): 6 8.13 (d, 1:9.2 Hz, 1H), 7.32-7.21 (n1, 3H),
7.11-7.05 (m, 1H), 6.98 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.65-4.60 (m,
3H), 4.35 (d, 1:172 Hz, 1H), 3.82 (d, J:1.6 Hz, 1H),
3.50-3.41 (m, 3H), 3.23-3.14 (m, 2H), 2.12-1.97 (m, 4H).

OH

17. Synthesis of 2-(4-(6-(triﬂuoromethyl)-3,4-dihy-
droisoquinolin—2(1H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin—8-ol (Com-
pound 17)

[0322]

Compound 17
\ CF3
/ /\/\/N
N o

[0323] This compound was prepared in 17% yield (last
step) (167 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 6-(triﬂuoromethyl)-1,2,3,4—tetrahydro-isoquino-
line as the starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 417 [M+H]‘. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDClS): o 8.03 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.51 (s,
1H), 7.48 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.30 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H),
7.21-7.15 (m, 2H), 7.01-6.97 (m, 2H), 6.87 (d. J:9.2 Hz,
1H), 4.78-4.45 (m, 3H), 4.36 (d, J:5.6 Hz, 1H), 3.73 (t,
J:6.4 Hz, 1H), 3.56-3.30 (m, 3H), 3.21-3.17 (m, 2H),
2.04-1.87 (m, 4H).

OH

Jan. 31, 2019

18. Synthesis of 2-(4-(6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyri-
din-5(4H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin-8—ol (Compound 18)

[0324]

Compound 18

OH

[0325] This compound was prepared in 20% yield (last
step) (16 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno[3,2-c]py1idine as the
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 355 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CD3OD): 6 8.11 (d. J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.39 (d, 1:5.2 Hz,
1H), 7.29 (m, 2H), 7.08 (dd, J1:6.4 Hz, J2:2.4 Hz, 1H), 6.96
(d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 6.88 (d, J:5.2 Hz, 1H), 4.63 (I, J:6.0 Hz,
3H), 4.26 (s, 1H), 3.87 (s, 1H), 3.44 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 3H), 3.23
(t, s, 2H), 1.99 (m, 4H),

19. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4,5-dihydrothjeno[2,3-c]pyri-
din—6(7H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin-8—ol (Compound 19)

[0326]

Compound 19
N
N / o/\/\/ S

OH

[0327] This compound was prepared in 20% yield (last
step) (15 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno[2,3-c]pyridine as the
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 355 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 3 8.00 (d, J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 758 (hrs, 1H),
7.29-7.20 (m, 2H), 7.15 (dd, 11:5.6 Hz, 12:1.2 Hz, 1H), 7.10
(d, J:4.0 Hz, 1H), 6.39 (d, J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.79 (d, J:4.0 Hz,
1H), 4.51 (t, J:5.2 Hz, 2H), 3.74 (s, 3H), 2.82 (m, 2H), 2.78
(m, 2H), 2.67 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 1.94 (m, 2H), 1.83 (m, 2H).

20. Synthesis of 2-(4-(5-chlorn-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound
20)

[0328]

Compound 20
c1

OH
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019
68

-continued

[5* B

33- g- mesﬂn mam

Comr cAMP cAMP mestm anestm (smug (antagr
pound (agonist (agonist (agonlst (agonlst onist onist
mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound Structure IU'PACName E050“ Em: ECSO“ Em" ICSO“ 1m:

 

32 Cl 7-(¢(1-(3— NA NA NA NA *m tm
chlomphenyl)-
6,7—dihydro—1H—
pyrazolo[4,3-

N c]pyndin75(4I-I)r
N I ynbumxymm
N\/\/\ dihyquuinolinr

0 1"] 0 2(1H)rone
H

, q , * w
33 ,PNﬁ 7 (4(,,5 NA NA NA NA

dlhydror
N mamm-
N0 N 0 a]pymzln»7(8H)-
| yl)butoxy)—3,4»
dmyquuinonn-
2 (1 HJ-one

 

83 \ ““14, NA NA NA NA
dihydroiso»

N quinolin»2(1H)-
No N/ ’§ yl)butoxy) 4,5»
0 dihydro-IH-
pyrido [2,3-

d][1,3]d1azepm-
2 (3 Hj-one

3" F 8-(4-(6-ﬂuom- NA NA NA NA W “m
3,4-dih dxoiso-
m mm qumth-MH»

\/\/\

0 N «g yljbutoxy)r4,Sr
o dihydrorlHr
pyrldo[2,3-
d][1,3]dzazepm

2(3H)-one

35 C‘ 8-(4.(6-chloro- NA NA NA NA m m»
3,4-d1hydmzso-
mw I / NH quinolin»2(1H)-
O N ’<

N yl)butoxy)—4,5-
H O dihydro-IH—
pyrido [2,3-
d][1,3]dlazepin-
2 (3 Hj-one

3" s \ 8-(4—(6,7— NA NA NA NA w mu
I I NH dihydm-
\ N / lhieno[3)27
\/\/\O N /< c]pyndin75(4H)r
o

E yljbutoxy)r4,Sr
dihydror 1H7
pyrido [2,37
d][1,3]dlazepin-
2 (3 Hj-one

37 \ s—(¢(4,5- NA NA NA NA W tm
/ I NH dihydmr
N / lhieno[2,3r
S No N IQ c]pyndin75(7H)r
o yljbutoxy) 4,57
dihydro- 1 H-
pyrido [2,37
d][1,3]dlazepin-
2(3 Hyone
US 2019/0031685 A1

-continued

,N\ \ \
Ph—N N |
H

344 The compound of claim 1, having formula (IV-e):

(IvIe)
\
| NH.
N\/\/\ /
O N N
H 0

354 The compound of claim 34, wherein Ring Ar is a
benzo, pyrazolo. thieno, pyrimido, pyrazino, thiazolo, imi-
dazolo, furano, or pyridazino ring, each of which is option-
ally substituted with one to three substituents, independently
selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylarnino, (C1-
C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro,
(C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more
ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally substi-
tuted pyridyl,

36, The compound of claim 34, wherein the compound is:

@Wop N/ \H/<::
Omwom:

o
S \
03 I II
No N E/<
o
\
as I m
s N\/\/\O N/ N/<
H
at O
\
$0 I I
N\/\/\O N/ g/<

Jan. 3], 2019

-continued
,N\ \
—N | NH, or
/ N\/\/\ N/
O N
H 0
N N
/ \ N’ \ |\ NH.
_ / N\/\/\ / /<
o N N
H 0

37, The compound of claim 1, having formula (IV-f):

<93 0
N\/\/\0 N/ R‘.

38. The compound of claim 37, wherein R1 is iNHCO
(Cl -C3)a1ky1, iN'HS(O)2(C 1-C3)a1kyl,

mm

N._NH

(IV-f)

39. The compound of claim 37, wherein Ring Ar is a
benzo ring, optionally substituted with one to three substitu-
ents, independently selected from halo, oyano, alkylamino,
dialkylamino, (C1-C3)a1ky1 optionally substituted with one
or more ﬂuoro, and (C1-C3)a1koxy1 optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuoroi

40. The compound of claim 37, wherein the compound is:

03 (1 °
03 f1 0
N\/\/\0 \N iiJk/
/
‘\/\/\O \N g/S\,
/
\/\/\0 \N f \/
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019

 

65
-continued
[5- W
5- ﬁ- anesu'n arrestm
Com- cAMP cAMP mestm mesnn (amag- (mug-
pound (agomst (agonist (agonisl (agonist onisl onisl
Numr mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound SLruclure IUPAC Name 13cm“ Em} ECSO“ Em} ICSO“ 1m}
69 s \ 7—(4—(6,7— NA NA NA NA W "W
I I 1111mm-
\ N\/\/\ / men-“[33—
o N N 0 c]pyndm-5(4H)-
H yupmoxy) ,47
dlhydm-1,8-
naphthyridm-
2(1H)-one

/

\

54 \ 7r(¢(4,57 NA NA NA NA *m “a
/ I I dlhydmr
N lhieno[2,3r
S \/\/\0 N 0 c1pyn‘d'm—60H)»

yl)butoxy)—1,8»
naphthyridm-
2 (1 Hj-one

70 ”“45, NA NA NA NA H H”
{IF I dihydror
N thleno[2,3-
S \/\/\o N 0 c1pyn‘d'm-6n7H)»

yl)butoxy)—3,4»
dihydm—1,8-
naphmyridm-
2 (1 HJ-one

{1:2

/

\

N
H

44 2,(4,((6,(1H, “H * “a: 1 w; ya:
pyrazolr}
y1)pyndlnrzr
yl)OXY)butyl)-
1,2,3 ,4-
reuahydroiso-
quznonne

 

51 / 27(4r((67(lHr NA NA NA NA "‘ *‘**
l irmdazolAr
N \ y1)pyn‘d1n-2-
We N / yl)oxy)buty1)-
NH 1,23,4‘
NV feuahydroiso-
quinoline

27 3 77(‘H6177 in“ * NA NA w xx::
I dihydmr
\ NW th1eno[3,2—

o o c]pyridin-5(4H)»

yl)butoxy)—3,4»
dihydro»

quinolln»2(1H)-

one

{112

23 7—(¢(4,5— m. 1 NA NA u .m
/ I dihydm-
s N\/\/\ Lhieno[2,3-
0 0 c]pyndin-6(7H)-
ynbumxyyz ,4?
dihyquumoum
2 (1 H)-one

:2

9 / 2_(¢(4,<3_ m. .. NA NA .m
N methoxypyridin»

2-y1)pzpmzxn-1-
\ N/ﬁ \ yl)but0xy)quin-
I olin-8-ol

OH
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31, 2019
71

-cominued

[5- W

ﬁ- 13- mesu'n arrestm

Comr CAMP CAMP mestm mesun (smug (smug
pound (agomst (agonist (agonisl (agonist onisl onisl
Num~ mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound Structuxe IU'PACName E050“ E 1’ ECSD“ E ” 1cm" 1m:

 

78 CN 2,(4,((7,Oxo, m m m m NA NA
5,6,18-

retrahydro-l ,8-

N | naphthyrldin—
/ . .

\/\/\0 N N O 2 yl)oxy)butyl)

H 1,2,3 ,4-
teuahydm»
Isoquinoline-S-
caibonlu‘ile

63 \ 7-(4-(3-(m- NA NA NA NA W *m
l ﬁuoromeLhyl}

NM / 3,4rd1hydroisor
0 N g 0 qumolerUI ,

CF3 yljbuloxy)rl,Sr
naphthyrldin—
2 (1 H)-one

79 77(4487 NA NA NA NA H m:
I (Lriﬁuoromeﬂr
N\/\/\ / yl)r3,47
0 N o

dihydroiso»
CF] quinolin»2(1H)-
yl)butoxy) ,4»
dihydrorlﬁr
“,3therdi
2 (1 HJ-one

(,4 2_(4_((7_m_ m. u .m . m .m
l 7,3—dxhydm-
N\/\/\ 1 3'
0 N 0 uaphthyridin-Z-
CN y1)0XY)but:/l)r
1.2,3,4-

teuahydmxsor

qumolmerSr

caxbonlm‘le

80 I \ 2-(4»((7-oxo- NA NA NA NA " m»
5,6,18-

N\/\/\ / feuahydro-1,8-
O N O naphthyridin-Z-

CN y1)0xy)butyl)-
1,2,3 ,4-
reuahydroiso-
qulnoline-S-
carbonimle

65 \ 77(47(7rmemy17 *m * NA NA w *m
l 3,4rd1hydroisor
NW\ / qumoler(1H)r
o N 0

   

ﬂ yljbuloxy)rl,Sr
naphthyrldin—
2(1H)-one
s1 77(47(7rmemy17 NA NA NA NA w *m
m m 3,4rd1hydroisor
N\/\/\ quinolln»2(1H)-
O N g 0 yl)butoxy),
d1hydro-1,8-
naphthyridm-

2(1HJ-one
US 2019/0031685 A1

mg, 0.3 mmol). The mixture was heated to 110° C. and
stirred for 2 h. The solvent was concentrated and the residue
was puriﬁed by ﬂash column chromatography on silica gel
to give Compound 91 as a yellow solid (8 mg, 9% yield).
MS (ESI): m/z 351 [M+H]*. lH N'MR (400 MHz, CDCl,):
6 8.26 (s, 1H), 7.11 (m, 3H), 7.02 (m, 2H), 6.52 (dd, 1:8.0
Hz, 1H), 6.33 (d, J:2,0 Hz, 1H), 4.97 (t, J:6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.65
(s, 2H), 2.90 (m, 4H), 2.75 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.58 (m, 4H),
1.83 (m, 2H), 1.78 (m, 2H).

92. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(naphthalen-l-yl)piperazin-
1-yl)butoxy)—1H-indazole (Compound 92)

[0485]
\,N .
HZN [i
9271
\
/N 9
H0 ﬂ
92-2
\N
/ —»
N
HO
\
Boc
92-3
\N
Br N/ —>
o
\
Boc
92-4
00 No v ~
N\/\/\O A;
Boo
92-5
I N
D 0 EN
N\/\/\0 N
\
Boc
Compound 92

(a) Synthesis of lH-indazol-G-ol (92-2)

[0486] To a suspension of compound 92-1 (4.5 g, 33.8
mmol) in 20 mL of ice water was added 6 mL of conc.
sulfuric acid dropwise at 0° C. The mixture was stirred at

Jan. 31, 2019

room temperature for 1 h and then heated to 110° C. for
another hour. The mixture was cooled and adjusted to pH 6
with 2 M sodium hydride to give a suspension. The suspen-
sion was ﬁltered. The solid was collected and dried in vacuo

to afford the crude product as a brown solid (25 g, yield:
556%). MS (ESI): m/z 135 [M+H]*.

(b) Synthesis of tert-butyl 6-hydroxy-1H-indazole-
l-carboxylate (92-3)

[0487] A mixture of compound 92-2 (5.3 g, 25.1 mmol),
di-tcrt-butyl dicarbonatc (5.5 g, 25.1 mmol), triethylamine
(2.79 g, 27.6 mmol), and N,N-diniethyl-pyridin-4-amine
(153 mg, 1.26 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (20 mL) was heated
to 75° C. for 4 h. Solvent was then evaporated in vacuo, and
the crude product was puriﬁed with column chromatography
(silica gel, ethyl acetate/dichloromethane:lls) to aﬁord
compound 92-3 as a yellow oil (23 g, yield: 22.4%). MS
(ESI): m/z 235 [M+H]*.

(c) Synthesis of tert-butyl 6-(4-bromobutoxy)-1H-
indazole-l -carboxylate (92-4)

[0488] A suspension of compound 92-3 (2.3 g, 5.62
mmol), 1,4-dibromobutane (2.4 g, 11.2 mmol), and potas-
sium carbonate (1.55 g, 11.2 mmol, 20 eq.) in acetonitrile
(10 mL) was heated to 75° C. for 5 h. The solvent was then
evaporated in vacuo, and the crude product was puriﬁed by
column chromatography (silica gel, ethyl acetate/petroleum
ether:l/10) to aﬂord compound 92-4 as a colorless oil (175
g, yield: 54.2%). MS (ESI): m/z 392, 390 [M+H]*.

(d) Synthesis of tert-butyl 6-(4-(4-(naphthalen-1-yl)
piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-1H-indazole-1-carboxylate
(92—5)

[0489] A mixture of compound 92-4 (100 mg, 0.174
m.mol), 1-(naphthalen-1-yl)piperazine (41 mg, 0.190 mmol),
and potassium carbonate (27 mg, 0.190 mmol) in acetoni-
trile (2 mL) was heated to 75° C. for 4 h. The solvent was
evaporated in vacuo, and the crude mixture was puriﬁed
with prep-TLC (silica gel, ethyl acetatejdichloromethane:1/

40) to aﬁord compound 92-5 as a colorless oil (76 mg, yield:
874%). MS (ESL): m/z 501 [M+H]+.

(e) Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(naphthalen-1-yl)piperazin-
1-yl)butoxy)-1H-indazole (hydrogen chloride salt)
(Compound 92)

[0490] A mixture of compound 92-5 (76 mg, 0.152 mmol)
and cone. hydrogen chloride (0.5 mL) in tetrahydroﬁrran (2
mL) was heated to 75° C. for l h. The mixture was cooled
to room temperature to give a suspension. The solid was
collected by ﬁltration, washed with cold 05 mL of metha-
nol, and dried in vacuum to aﬁord compound 92 (60 mg,
yield: 83.5%) as a white solid. MS (EST: m/z 401 [M+H]*.
1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): 5 9,96 (bs, 1H), 8.21-8.18 (m,
1H), 7.96 (d, J:0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.83-7.81 (m, 1H), 7.60 (dd,
1:8.8 Hz, 0.8 Hz, 1H), 7.55 (d, J:8.0 Hz. 1H), 7.49-7.46 (m,
2H), 7.40 (t, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (d, J:7.2 Hz, 1H),
6.86-6.83 (m, 2H), 4.06 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.17 (s, 4H), 2.79
(s, 4H), 2.59 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.95-1.88 (m, 2H), 1.84-1.77
(m, 2H).
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0475] This compound was prepared in 51% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 83 but using 4,5,
6,7-tetrahydrothieno[2,3-c]pyridine as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 373 .2 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC];): 6 8.47 (s, 1H), 7.36 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (d,
J:4.8 Hz, 1H), 6.78 (d, 1:4,8 Hz, 1H), 6.25 (d, 1:8,0 Hz,
1H), 4.22 (t, 1:610 Hz, 2H), 4.10 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.70 (s,
2H), 3.00 (t, J:8.4 Hz, 2H), 2.81-2.75 (m, 4H), 2.62 (d,
J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.89-1.72 (m, 4H).

88. Synthesis of 8—(4-(5-chloro-3.4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-yl)butoxy)-4,5-dihydm-lH-pyrido[2,3-
d] [1 ,3]diazepin-2(3H)-one (Compound 88)

[0476]
Compound 88
C1
\
| NH
vax / ,(
o N N
H o

[0477] This compound was prepared in 33% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 83 but using
5»chloro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the amine start-
ing material, MS (ESI): m/z 401,] [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIS): as 8.48 (s, 1H), 7.35 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.20
(:1, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (1, 1:7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.94 (d, 1:7.6 Hz,
1H), 6.25 (d, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 4.23 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.11 (t,
J:8.8 Hz, 2H), 3.62 (s, 2H), 2.99 (t, J:8.8 Hz, 2H), 2.88 (t,
1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.76 (1, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.57 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H),
1.89-1.64 (m, 4H).

89, Synthesis of 8-(4-(2-phenyl-6,7-dihydro-2H-

pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4H)-yl)butoxy)-4,5-di-

hydro-1H-pyrido[2,3-d][l,3]diazepin-2(3H)-one
(Compound 89)

[0478]
Compound 39
,N\ \
Ph—N | NH
/ N\/\/\ / /§
0 N N
H o

[0479] This compound was prepared in 47% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 83 but using 2-phe-
nyl-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridine as the
amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 433.1 [M+H]*, NMR
(400 MHz, CDCl,): 6 8.48 (bs, 1H), 7.63-7.61 (m, 3H), 7.35
(:1, 1:80 Hz, 2H), 7.35 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (t, 1:714 Hz,
1H), 6.24 (d, 1:8,0 Hz, 1H), 517 (hrs, 1H), 4.22 (t, 1:6.2
Hz, 2H), 4.10 (1, J:8.6 Hz, 2H), 3.59 (s, 2H), 2.98 (t, 1:8.6
Hz, 2H), 2.92-2.89 (m, 2H), 2.84-2.82 (m, 2H), 2.62 (t,
J:7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.87-1.74 (m, 4H).

Jan. 31, 2019

90, Synthesis of 8-(4-(2-(pyridin-2-y1)-6,7-dihydro-
ZH-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-5(4I*l)-yl)butoxy)-4,5-
dihydro—l H-pyrido[2,3-d][1,3]diazepin-2(3H)-one

(Compound 90)

[0480]
Compound 90
N N \
/ /
— \/\/\O N
MO

[0481] This compound was prepared in 51% yield using
the procedures described for Compound 83 but using
2-(pyridin-2-y1)-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro—2H-pyrazolo[4,3-c]pyri-
dine as the amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 434.2
[M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,CDC13): 8 8.47 (bs, 1H), 3.35
(d, J:4,0 Hz, 1H), 8.24 (s, 1H), 7.87 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H),
7.78-7.73 (m. 1H), 7.33 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.13-7.09 (m,
1H), 6.23 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 5.35 (bs, 1H), 4.21 (t, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 4.09 (t, J:8.4 Hz, 2H), 3.59 (s, 2H), 2.97 (t, J:8.8 Hz,
2H), 2.89 (d, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.84-2.77 (m, 2H), 2.61 (t,
J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.88-1.72 (m, 4H).

91. Synthesis of 7-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(lH)-yl)butoxy)—3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(l H)-one
(Compound 91)

[0482]
BrW\
Br
KZCOL (C2H5)20
HO N 0
H
91-1
TEA, Dioxane
4»
Br\/\/\
0 N O
H
91-2
N\/\/\
O N O
H
Compound 91
[0483] A mixture of 7-hydmxy-3,4-dihyd.roqu inolin-2

(1H)-one (9H) (40 mg, 0.25 mmol) and potassium carbonate
(52 mg, 0.38 mmol) in ethyl ether (5 mL) was reﬂuxed for
4 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo, and
then water (10 mL) was added to the residue. The resulting
suspension was extracted with ethyl acetate (30 mLx3). The
combined organic layers were washed with water (20 mL),
brine (20 mL), and dried over sodium sulfate, Aﬁer ﬁltra-
tion, the ﬁltrate was concentrated in Vacuo to give compound
91-2 as a brown oil, which was dissolved in dioxane (3 mL).
[0484] To the dioxane solution was added triethylamine
(39 mg, 0.75 nunol) and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (40
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019

 

70
-continued
[5- ﬂ
57 [Sr mesun arrestm
Com- CAMP CAMP mesnn urestm (amag- (anmg-
pound (agomst (agonist (agonist (agonist onisl unis!
Num- mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound Structure IU'PACName E050” Em” ECSO“ Em} ICSO“ 1m}
74 he 77(4(67 *** * NA NA H *m
m m (Lriﬂuommeﬂr
N\/\/\ Elm-3'4»
0 N N 0 dihydroiso-

H qulnolin»2(1H)-
yl)butoxy)—3,4»
dihydro-l,8-
napmhyrzdm
2 (1 Hj-one

59 C1 7,(4(5,Chlm, *m :2 NA NA *xx: xx::
m m 3,47dihydroisor
N\/\/\ / qumalmrztu
0 N 1]} 0

y1)bmoxy)—1,s-

“1311111erdi
2 (1 I'D-one

75 Cl 7_(4,(6_chlom_ n” a NA NA 11>»
m 3,4—d1hydmzso-
NW / quinolin»2(1H)-
O N N O yl)but0xy)—3,4-
H dihydm—1,8-
naphthyridm-

2(1Hj-one

60 Cl 7_<¢(5_chlm_ mt in»: .m 1m NA NA
3,4—dihydmiso—

qumolmrzumr
N I yljbutoxy)rl,Sr
W\ / nuphmyridm
O N 1131 O 2(1H)rone

76 c1 7-(4.(5-c1.10m- n” .m .m NA NA
3,4-danydmaso-

qumolm-2(1H)-
V | yubutoxy) .
‘ N0 N 11:11 O dlhydm-1,8-

“13therdi
2 (1 Hj-one

   

61 CF3 7-(¢(5-(mﬂu- “u in»: M 1m NA NA
ommethylj-

\ 3 ,4-dihydxoiso-
| qumolm-2(1H)-
N\/\/\O N \I O yl)butoxy)—1,8-

H naphthyridm-
2 (1 Hj-one

77 CF3 7_(¢(5_(mﬁu_ m m xx m NA NA
0mmethyl)-3,4-

dihydmso—
I qumoler(1H)r
NW\O N/ N o yubumxymw
H

dihydrorlﬁr
“1311111erdi
2 (1 HJ-one

62 CN 2_(4_((7_0XO_ n” .m .m m NA NA
7,8-dlhydro»1,8-

\ naphthyrldin—
| 2-yl)0xy)butyl)-
N\/\/\O 1.2.3 ,4-

teuahydrmso-
qumolme—S—
carbon-Aim le
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31, 2019
64

-continued

[5- W

5- ﬁ- anesu'n arrestm

Com- cAMP cAMP mestm arrestm (amag- (mug-
pound (agomst (sgonist (agonist (agonisl onist onisl
Numr mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound SLruclure IUPAC Name 13cm“ Em} ECSO“ Em} 1cm“ 1m}

 

 

» n”

 

7.9M” n .m
</ I dihydxo-
N Lmazolo[5,4-
S We N 0 clpyridm-
I 5(4Hu-
H yljbutoxy) ,4?
dihydxo-
qumolm-2(1H)-
one

40 N-(6-(4—(3,4- NA NA NA NA " a”
/ \ dihydmso—
O qumolm-2(1H)-

\N g y1)bumxy)pyp

0 manrzr
N yl)zwemmide

41 N-(é-(4—(3,4- NA NA NA NA “ u”
dihydrmsor
/ qumalmrztu
\ o yUbumxwpyr
\ N many;

0 yl)pmplonamide
N\/\/\

42 0 N-(é-(4—(3A- NA NA NA NA * u”
/ || / dihydrmsor
\ ,S§o qumoler(1H)r
\ g yUbutoxwpyr

N xdmzr
0
\/\/\ yl)methane-
N sulfonamlde

43 N-(o-wu- NA NA NA NA u

0
/ ||/\ dihydmso-
\ /S§o qumolmrzuH),

y1)bumxy)pyp
N H min-2-

\/\/\0 yl)eLhanesu1fon-
N amide

52 7-(¢(3,4- m. .m . .m
|\ \ dihydroiso-
N / qumolm-2(1H)-
\/\/\0 N N o yl)butoxy)-1.8-
H naphthyridm-
2(1HJ-one

dihydrmso-
qumolm-2(1H)-
o yl)butoxy)—
3,4rdihydrorl,gr
naphthyridm-
2 (1 H)-one

68 \ 7_(4_<3’4_ nu u NA NA an an
/

5:2

53 s \ \ 7mm * NA NA
I I dihydmr
\ N / [hzenopgr
\/\/\o N N 0 cmyndinrsmmr
H yl)butoxy)—1,8»
naphthyridm-
2(1HJ-one
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019

-continued
[5- ﬁ
ﬁ- ﬁ- mesu'n mesnn
Comr CAMP CAMP mestm mesun (smug (antagr
pound (agomst (agonist (agonlst (agonist onist onisl
Numr mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound SLrucIure IUPAC Name 13cm“ Em: ECSO" Em" ICSO" 1m"

 

34 /N\ 7_(4.(Z.emy1_ u m u nu NA N A
N 6,7—dihydro—2H—
/ / N\/\/\ pyrazolo[4,3r
o N 0

I c]pyndin75(4I-I)r
H ynbumxymm
dihyquuinolinr

2 (1 HJ-one

35 MHz-(2- NA NA NA NA m W.

F
N ﬁuomphenyl)—
I \ 6,7—dihydro-2H-
N / N m pyrazolo[4,3r
NO I|\I o c]pyndin75(4H)r

yubumxymw
H dihyquuinolln-
2 (1 Hj-one

35 7_(4_(2,(3_ n” n” ”n ”n NA NA

F
N ﬂuorophenyl)-
N’ 6,7—dihydro—2H—
N\/\/\ pyrazolo [4,3-
0 If 0 c]pyndin-5(4H)-
H yl)but0xy)—3,4-
dihyquulnolinr

2(1Hyone

37 ,N 7-(¢(2-(4- NA NA NA NA W "H
F—< %N N ﬁuomphenyl)—
\/\/\0 N 0 6,7rdnhydm72Hr

I pyrazolo[4,3r
H c]pyndin75(4H)r
yljbutoxy)r3,47
dihyquulnolln-
2(1 Hyone

33 N N 7,(4,(2,(pyﬁdm, “H w” “a: :: w; x:
\ N“ \ 27y1)76,7r
_ / N\/\/\ dihydro—ZH-
0 N 0

pyrazolo[4,3-
J1 c]pyndin75(4I-I)r
ynbumxymm
dihyquuinolmr
2 (1 H)rone

22 2444““. 1*“ u m n u u
/ N hydmxy-

I qumolianr
\ N \ y1>oxy>butyl>pir
K/ | perazinrlr
CN N\/\/\ / yumcminm
0 N nzm‘le

OH

2-(4-((6-(1H— “u an n: nu NA NA

45 Cl
pyrazol-S-
/ y1)pyndlnrzr
l y1)uxy)bulyl)rsr
N\/\/\ \ chlor071,2,3,4r
o N \ \

teuahydmxsoV

nznonne
N‘N‘H q
US 2019/0031685 A1

66

-cominued

Comr
pound

ber Compound Structure

CAMP

(agomst (agonist (agonisl (ugonist
mode)
ECSD“

mode)

IU'PACName E050“ E

mode)

‘3.

g.

CAMP mestm aneslm

mode)
E

17

Jan. 3], 2019

[5- W

anesu'n arrestm
(smug

onist onisl
mode)

ICso“ Lw"

{smugr

mode)

 

10 /N

OH

11 /N

OH

12 \

OH

1 3 M60

0H

14 Cl

0H

15 NC

OH

16 F

OH

17 F3C

OH

gm“; A
ethoxypyxidln»2-
yl)piperazln-l-

yl)butoxy)quin»
olin-S-ol

2-(¢(4»(3- NA NA
propoxypyridin-
Z-yl)piperazin—1-
yl)but0xy)quin-
olin-S—ol

2796,47 NA NA
dihydrmsor

quinolin»2(1H)-

yl)butoxy)quln»
olin-S-ol

2-(4—(6»meLhoxy- NA NA
3,4—d1hydroiso-
qumolm—ztu
yl)butoxy)quln»
olin-S—ol

27(4(57chlor07 NA NA
3,4rdihydroisor
qumoler(1H)r
yl)butoxy)qu1n»
olin-S-ol

2-wa- NA NA
hydroxy»
qumolin»2-
y1)0Xy)butyl)-
1,2,3 ,4-
tetrahydrolso-
qumolme-s-
carbonimle

27(4r(57ﬂuomr NA NA
3 ,4?
dihydrmsor
qumolerUH}
yl)butoxy)qu1n»
oan-S-ol

2-(4—(6- NA NA
(Lriﬂuom—
melhy1)-3,4-
dihydrmsor

qumolerg’

yubumxmum

olin-S-ol

 

xxaa

NA

“x

”n

NA

NA

NA

NA

A

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

$$* xxaa

n "M

$ xxaa

w "M

$ .rxa$

» u”

xx xxaa

x u”
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31,2019

 

-cominued
[5- ﬁ
ﬁ- 33- mestin mam
Come CAMP CAMP mestm mesuu (”mgr (image
pound (agumst (agonist (agonisl (agonlsl onist onlsl
Num- mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
ber Compound Structure IUPAC Name ECW“ EM: ECSD“ Em" cho" 1m"
13 s \ 2—(4—(6,7— NA NA NA NA * “m
I I dihydm—
\ V Lhieno[3,2-
‘ \/\/\O N/ c]pyndine5(4H)e
yubumxmum
0H olineSeol

19 \ 2-(¢(4,5- NA NA NA NA * m“
/ I I dihydxo-
N / Lhieno[2,3-
s NO N c]pyndine5(7H)e

yubumxmum
OH olineSeol

20 c1 2,(4(5,Chlm, a: m x: :::* NA NA
3 Ardlhydmisoe
qumolme2(1H)e
I yl)butoxy)qu1n»

/

olin-S-ol

Z
c;
2\

0H

2-(4-(3-(m- m. u NA NA u .m
I ﬁuommemyly
3,4edihydroisae
qumalme2(1H)e
yummy/mum

CF3 0H din-8'01

21

Z\/

29 \ / 74444 n» n ” >7» .. m,
(dimethyl-
ammo)-5, c-
N/ dihydro-

k I pyrid0[3,4-
\ N\/\/\ d rimidine
N 0 If 0 Jp¥(8H)e
H yIJbutoxy) 3 4
dihydlo-
qulnolin»2(1H)-
one

 

30 /N\ 7’(4’F2’Phe“yl’ m H xx*: 4' w em
6,7ednhydme2He

Ph —N
/ N\/\/\ pymolo[4,3-
o N 0 c1pyu‘dm-s (4H)»
| yl)buloxy)—3,4»
dlhydro»
qumulm-2(1H>—
one

31 714*(17pheuyle H“ We: ya: #:zvi NA NA

6,7-dihydro-1H-

Ph
\
N/N I ”352013133-
c pyn m-
\ N\/\/\O N 0 5(4Hu-
I yl)butoxy)—
H 3,4-d1hydm-

qumolmeZI’lHy
one
US 2019/0031685 A1

73

-continued

Comr
pound

ber Compound Structure

CAMP

IUPAC Name

mode)

E

‘3.

mode)
ECSO“

‘3.

CAMP mestm anestm
(agom‘st (agonist (agonlst (agonlst
mode)
ECSO"

mode)

E

b

[5,

011151

mode)
1cm,“

Jan. 3], 2019

[y

mesﬂn mam
(antagr

(antagr
onist
mode)

Imx"

 

46

\

N‘NH

47/N

|
\ N/W /
OMe K/ \ I

66 N

Ph—N |
/ N\/\/\ /
o N N o

89 [N\
Ph—N | NH
/ N\/\/\ /
0 N

67 N N
/ \ N’ \ I
— / N\/\/\ /
O N N O

90 N N\
— \/\/\O

“xa

1—(4-((6-(1H—
pyrazol-S-
y1)pyndin-Z-
y1)0Xy)butyl)-
442,37
dmmomphem
yl}pipemzme

17(4r((5r(1H7 *m
pyrazolr}
y1)pyndinrzr
yl)oxy)butyl)—
4(3»
methoxypyridin»
2-yl)piperazme

7-(4-(2-phenyl- W
6,7—dihydro—2H—
pyrazolo[4,3-
c]pyndin75(4H)r
yljbutoxy)rl,Sr
“1:11:11erdi
2 (1 I'D-one

7-(4—(2-phenyl- NA
6,7—dihydro—2H—
pyrazolo[4,3r
c]pyndin75(4H)r
yljbuloxy) ,4?
dihydro- 1 ,8-
“13therdi
2 (1 HJ-one

      

8-(4-(2»phenyl» m
6,7-dihydro-2H-
pymolo[4,3—
c]pyndin-5(4H)-
yl)but0xy)—4,5-
dihydro- 1 H-
pyrzdo [2,37
d][1,3]dlazep1n-
2 (3 Hume

7-(4-(2-(pyridmv W
27y1)76,7r
dihydrorzHr
pyrazolo[4,3r
c]pyndin75(4H)r
yl)butoxy)—1,8»
mpmhyrzdm
2 (1 HJ-one
8»(4-(2-(pyridin> n"
2-yl)-6,7»
dihydm—ZH-
pyrazolo[4,3-
c]pyndin-5(4H)v
yl)butoxy)—4,5»
dihydro- 1 H-
pyrido [2,3w
d][1,31diazepm-
2(3 Hyene

Mm

$**

NA

n

n”

u”

sxaa

NA

NA

"1

NA

an

x

NA

NA

n

NA

”u

an

inn:

an

n

mu

u

NA

Mm

$**

an

an

mm

a”

NA
US 2019/0031685 A1

6. The compound of claim 1,
wherein

N
H
Y/
| NH.
\ /<

X N

H O
/
Y/ Y \

7. The compound of claim 1,

whereinQis
7 ’ ‘
R— N -
\_/ i

8. The compound of claim 1, having formula (Ill-a):

(1117a)

R
‘0 '\ 5N-

N /
\/\/\O N N

H

9. The compound of claim 8, wherein R7 is phenyl,
pyridyl, pyridazinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, or naphthyl,
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky-
lamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuom, and (Cl-C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro.

10, The compound of claim 8, wherein the compound is:

Jan.3l,2019
-continued
’U | \ it
\/\/\0 N/ g
QN/W | \ \N m
K/NNO N/ E/
| \N
K/N\/\/\ / N/

11, The compound of claim 1, having formula (HI-b):

(III-b)

“O

N\/\/\O

:z\ /

12. The compound of claim 11, wherein R7 is phenyl,
pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, pyrazinyl, or naphthyl,
each of which is optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alky-
lamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted
with one or more ﬂuoro, and (Cl-C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoroi

13, The compound of claim 11, wherein the compound is:

O N
Owomm
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019
63

-cominued

[5- W

ﬁ- ﬁ- anesu'n arrestm

CAMP CAMP mestm mesun (antagr (smug

(agomst (agonist (agonisl (agonist onisl onisl

mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)

Compound Structuxe IU'PACName E050“ EM: ECSD“ Em" 1cm" 1m:

Comr
pound

her

 

x xx xxaa

244440737 H
dlchlomphen-
yl)piperazln-l-

Cl Nﬁ \ yl)butoxy)quin»
K/ I onn-s-ol

Cl

OH

214(4 m H xx u H m
(napthalenrlr

yl)pipemzin~ l-

N/ﬁ I yl)buloxy)qu1n»
K/ olin-S-ol

0H

244444273, .. NA NA .. .m
du'nethylphen-

yl)piperazin-1-
N/W I yl)bul0xy)quin-

olin-S-ol

OH

**¥-K *xx: “x a“ NA NA

 

s / N

 

yupipemzzn

|
\ N \ yubmoxmuzn
l onn-s-ol
k/NW\ /
0 N

CH

23 N 7-(¢(7,8- u m "
K I dihydxo-
pyndo [4,37
N \ N\/\/\O N 0 d]pyrimidinr
6(5 H)-
H yl)but0xy)—3,4-
dihydmr
quinolln»2(1H)-
one

24 N 7-(4-(Z-methyl- xxx nu u n >z u

’ \ 6‘7-dihydro—2H—
/ N\/\/\ pyrazolo[4,3-
0 N 0 c]pyndin-5(4H)v
| yubmoxymw
H dlhydror
qumohnrztu
one

744413, x mm u u x u

E I dihydxo-
pyrido [3 ,4?
\ N\/\/\ b] - ,
pyrazm
N O N O 5(5Hy
H yubmoxymw
dihydro»
quinolln»2(1H)-
one
US 2019/0031685 A1

detection reagent was added to each well of the assay plate,
which was then covered and incubated for 1 h at RT. The
plate was read on an Envision reader using the Lumines-
cence protocol, and the data were exported for analysis,
[0519] The agonist Em“ results were expressed as a per-
cent of the dopamine control response ((measured speciﬁc
response/control speciﬁc agonist response)x100) obtained in
the presence of test article. The ECSO values (concentration
producing a half-maximal speciﬁc response) were deter-
mined by non-linear regression analysis of the concentra-
tion-response curves. According to the arrestin agonist
assay, the most active D2 agonists will have the most
amount of activity as measured by E"WC (ie, as represented
by the grading system in the Table, from most active to least
active D2 agonist is ““>“*>’”>*). Conversely, accord-
ing to the arrestin agonist assay, the most active D2 antago-
nists will have the least amount of activity as measured by
Em” (i,e., m>xn>tmt>smnmy

[0520] Arrestin Antagonist Assay: One day prior to test-
ing, a vial ofhigh density stock of DRD2L PathHunter cells
was thawed, and 1><107 cells diluted into 40 mL of growth
media (Ham’s F12/10% H] PBS/1% PSG). 20 [LL cells per
well were seeded directly into assay plates, and the plates
were allowed to rest for 1 h at RT before incubating in a plate
incubator overnight.

[0521] On the day of the assay, an intermediate dilution of
compounds was performed (5 [LL 100x compound into 95 [LL

Com-
pound
Numr
ber Compound Structure

33
O

 

\

Jan. 3], 2019

growth media, 5x ﬁnal concentration) 5 uL diluted com-
pound was added to each well of the assay plate, which was
then covered and incubated for 30 min at 37° C, A 6><EC80
stock of dopamine was prepared in growth media
(EC30:500 nM), and 5 [LL added to the wells of the assay
plate. The plate was incubated for 30 min at 37° C. 15 uL
PathHunter detection reagent was added to each well of the
assay plate, which was then covered and incubated for 1 h
at RT. The plate was read on an Envision reader using the
Luminescence protocol, and the data were exported for
analysis.

[0522] The antagonist 1",“ results were expressed as per-
cent inhibition of an ECgo concentration of dopamine (con-
centration that produces 80% of the maximum response to
dopamine). The IC50 values (concentration producing a
half-maximal inhibitory response) were determined by non-
linear regression analysis of the concentration-response
curves, According to the arrestin antagonist assay, the most
active D2 antagonists will have the most amount of inhibi-
tion as measured by In“ (i.e., as represented by the grading
system in the Table, from most active to least active D2
antagonist is ****>***>**>*). Conversely, according to the
arrestin antagonist assay, the most active D2 agonists will
have the least amount of inhibition as measured by 1m”
(i[e‘5*>tlk>*tt>lklhit)[

[0523] The potency and activity of the compounds pro-
vided herein in receptor assays is summarized in the table
below.

5- [5-

arrestin arrestin

ﬂ [5-
CAMP CAMP arrestin arrestin

(ngonist (agonist (agonist (agonist crust onist

(mag- (antag-

mode) mode)
ECso" Emaxb

mode) mode)
ECso" Emaxb

mode) mode)

l'UPAC Name 1050“ 1,”:

6444442,} .m u NA NA xxx“ m.
dichlorophenr
yljpipernzmrlr
y1)butoxy)rlHr
pyrnzolo[3,4r
b]pyridine

6447(47 m x m a u m
(naphthalen- 1-
yljpiperazin-l»
yl)butoxy)-1H-
pyrazolo[3,4»
b]pyridine

“4447(2); m x NA NA at $16.:
dimethylphenr
yl)pipernztnrlr
yl)butoxy)-1H-
pyrazolo[3,4»
b]pyridine

6447(47 a“ a“ m *m NA NA
{pyridine}
yimtpemzm
Lynbumxyy
1H-
pyrazolo[3,4»
b]pyridine
US 2019/0031685 A1

X is CH;
Y is N or CH;

each R10 and each RU are independently H, F, OH, or
(Cl-Cnalkyl;

(i) R1 is amido, sulfonamido, optionally substituted imi-
dazolyl, or optionally substituted pyrazolyl; and R2 is
H, halogen, CN, (C1-C4)alkyl, or (C1-C3)alkoxyl; or
(ii) R1 and R2 together with the carbon atoms to which
they are attached form a 5-, 6-, or 7-membered aryl,
heteroaryl, cycloalkyl, or heterocyclyl ring, each of
which is optionally substituted with one to three R6;

R3 and R4 together with the nitrogen atom to which they
are attached form an optionally substituted heterocyclyl

Q;
Q is

R7— MN? or
\_/ N :

R5 is H or (C1-C3)alkyl;

each R6 is independently OH, keto, halogen, CN, (C 1-C3)
alkyl, or (C1-C3)alkoxy1;

R7 is 5- to 10-membered aryl or heteroaryl, each option-
ally substituted with one to three substituents; and

Ring Ar is a benzo, pyrazolo, pyrido, thieno, pyrimido,
pyrazino, furano, pyridazino, thiazolo, or imidazolo
ring, each optionally substituted with one to three
substituents;

provided that:
(i) when Q is

18— NYL-
\_/

then

is not

/

Jan. 3], 2019

-continued
Y/ I
\
X N 0. or
Y/
| NH;
\
X N
H o

and

(ii) when Ar is an optionally substituted benzo ring, then

X R
is not
\
N o. N O,
H H
NH. or
N/<
H o
\N.
/
N

2 The compound of claim 1, wherein n is 4.
3. The compound of claim 1, wherein W is O,
4. The compound of claim 1, wherein R10 and R11 is H.

S. The compound of claim 1, wherein R1 is

wherein R8 is (C 1-C5)alkyl or optionally substituted phenyl.
US 2019/0031685 A1

48. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-((6-(lH-pyrazol-S-yl)py1i-
din-2-yl)oxy)butyl)piperazin-1-yl)nicotinon.itrile
(Compound 48)

[0390]

Compound 43

 

[0391] This compound was prepared in 50% yield using
the procedures described for Compounds 40 and 44 but
using 2-(piperazin-l~yl)n.icotin0nitrile as the amine starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 404.3 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC],): 5834 (dd, J:2.4 Hz. 4.8 Hz, 1H). 7.77 (dd, J:1.6
Hz, 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.65-7.61 (m, 2H), 7.27 (t, J:3.2 Hz, 1H),
6.76-6.73 (m, 2H), 6.68 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (t, J:6.4 Hz,
2H), 3.77 (t, J:4.8 Hz, 4H), 2.64 (1, 1:4.4 Hz, 4H), 2.51 (t,
J:8.4 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.84 (m, 2H), 179-173 (In, 2H)

49, Synthesis of 1-(4-((6-(1H-pyrazo1-3-yl)pyridin-
2-yl)oxy)butyl)—4-(2-ethoxyphenyl)piperazine
(Compound 49)

[0392]

Compound 49

0E1

 

48

Jan. 31, 2019

[0393] This compound was prepared in 50% yield using
the procedures described for Compounds 40 and 44 but
using l-(2-ethoxyphenyl)piperazine as the amine starting
material, MS (ESI): m/z 422.3 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC],): 5 7.64-7.60 (m, 2H), 7.29 (br, 1H), 6.99-6.89 (m,
3H), 6.85 (d, 1:7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.74 (br, 1H), 6.68 (d, J:8.4 Hz,
1H), 4.41 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 4.07 (q, 1:6.8 Hz, 2H), 3.15 (br,
4H), 2.69 (br, 4H), 2.51 (t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.91-1.84 (m, 2H),
1.79-1.72 (m, 2H), 1.46 (t, 1:6.8 Hz, 3H).

50. Synthesis of 1-(4-((6-(lH-pyrazol-S-yhpyridin-
2-yl)oxy)butyl)-4-(2-chlorophenyl)piperazine (Com-

pound 50)
[0394]
Compound 50
H'N\N
\ I N 0\/\/\
I N/ﬁ CN
/ K/N

[0395] This compound was prepared in 80% yield using

the procedures described for Compounds 40 and 44 but
using 1-(2-chlorophenyl)piperazine as the amine starting
material, MS (ESI): m/z 412.2 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC],): 6 7.65-7.61 (m, 2H), 7.36 (dd, 1:12 Hz, 7.6 Hz,
1H), 7.27 (t, J:4.4 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (dt, 1:1.2 Hz, 8.0 Hz, 1H),
7.06 (dd, 1:1.2 Hz, 8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.97 (dt, 1:1.2 Hz, 7.6 Hz,
1H), 6.74 (br, 1H), 6.68 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 4.42 (t, J:6.4 Hz,
2H), 3.12 (br, 4H), 2.70 (br, 4H), 2.54 (t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H),
1.92-1.85 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.72 (m, 2H).

51. Synthesis of 2-(4-((6-(1H-imidazol-4-yl)pyridin-

2-yl)0xy)butyl)- l , 2,3 , 4-tetrahydtoisoquinoline
(Compound 51)

[0396]

1) Pd(dppf)Clz, 1, 4d1oxouo,

Bu38n\(\N/CPh3

N

 

Owbiji:

Compound 51
US 2019/0031685 A1

93. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(2-ethoxyphenyl)piperazin-
1-yl)butoxy)-1H-indazole (Compound 93)

[0491]
Compound 93
N/ﬁ \N
OE: K/N\/\/\ /
0 ﬂ

[0492] This compound was prepared in 74% yield as a
hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using 1-(2-ethoxypheny1)-piperazine as
the amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 395 [M+H]‘. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDC13)15 10.3 (bs, 1H), 7.96 (s, 1H), 7.59
(d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 6.99-6.80 (m, 6H), 4.06 (q, J:7.2 Hz, 2H),
4.01 (d, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.14 (s, 4H), 2.69 (s, 4H), 2.50 (t,
J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.90-1.83 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.71 (m, 2H), 1.45
(t, J:7.2 Hz, 3H),

94. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(pyridin-2-y1)piperazin—1-
yl)butoxy)-1H-indazole (Compound 94)

[0493]
Compound 94
/ IN
\
N /
No Q

[0494] This compound was prepared in 75% yield as a
hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using l-(pyridin-2-y1) piperazine as the
amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 352 [M+H]*. 1H
NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): o 8.19 (dd, 1:52 Hz, 0.8 Hz, 1H),
7.96 (s, 1H), 7.60 (d, 1:88 Hz, 1H), 7.49-7.46 (m, 1H),
6.85-6.81 (m, 2H), 6.66-6.61 (m, 2H), 4.04 (t, 1:60 Hz,
2H), 3.56 (t, J:4.8 Hz, 4H), 2.60 (t, 1:48 Hz, 4H), 2.49 (t,
J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 192-185 (m, 2H), 1.79-1.73 (m, 2H)

95 Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(2,3-dimethylphenyl)piper-
azin-l-yl)butoxy)-1H-indazole (Compound 95)

[0495]

Compound 95
N
N
\/\/\O E

60

Jan. 3], 2019

[0496] This compound was prepared in 55% yield as a
hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using l-(2,3-dimethylphenyl) piperazine
as the amine starting material. MS (ESI): rn/z 379 [M+H]*.
1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCIB): 8 10.0 (bs, 1H), 7.97 (s, 1H),
7.60 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.07 (t, 1:8.0 Hz, 1H), 6.93-6.89 (m,
2H), 6.84-6.81 (m, 2H), 4.04 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.93 (t, Jﬂ1.8
Hz, 2H), 2.66 (s, 4H), 2.52 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.27 (s, 3H),
2.22 (s, 3H), 1.90-1.85 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.75 (m, 2H).

96, Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(0-toly1)piperazin-1-y1)
butoxy)-1H-indazole (Compound 96)

[0497]

Compound 96
N
N\/\/\o N

[0498] This compound was prepared in 90% yield as a
hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using 1-(2-methylphenyl) piperazine as
the amine starting materialr MS (ESI): m/z 365 [M+H]‘. 1H
NMR (400 MHz,CDC13): 6 9.95 (bs, 1H), 7.97 (s, 1H), 7.60
((1, F88 Hz, 1H), 7.17 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 7.04-6.96 (m, 2H),
6.85-6.81 (m, 2H), 4.05 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 2.97 (t, 14.4 Hz,
4H), 2.65 (s, 4H), 2.52 (1, F72 Hz, 2H), 2.30 (s, 3H),
1.91-1.85 (m, 2H), 1.81-1.75 (m, 2H).

97. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(2-chlorophenyl)piperazin-
1-y1)butoxy)-1H-indazole (Compound 97)

[0499]
Compound 97
N
O )N
C1 N
\/\/\0 g
[0500] This compound was prepared in 74% yield as a

hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using 1-(2-chlorophenyl)piperazine as the
amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 387, 385 [M+H]‘,
1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): a 9.94 (bs, 1H), 7.96 (s, 1H),
7.60 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.35 (d, J:8.0 Hz, 1H), 7.24-7.20 (m,
1H), 7.04 (d, 1:64 Hz, 1H), 6.98-6.95 (m, 1H), 6.85-6.82
(m, 2H), 4.05 (1, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.10 (s, 4H), 2.68 (s, 4H),
2.52 (t, 1:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.92-1.85 (m, 2H), 1.80-1.74 (m,
2H).
US 2019/0031685 A1
74

-cominued

ﬂ.
Comr CAMP CAMP mestm
pound (agomst (agonist (agonist
Num- mode) mode) mode)
ber Cumpouud Structure IUPAC Name F550” EM: ECSD"

39 .N 7,(¢(2,(4, NA NA NA
\/\/\0 N 0 yl)»6,7-d1hydro-
I 2H»
H pymolo[4,3-
c]pyu‘dzu-5(4H)»
yl)but0xy)—3,4-
dihyquuznouu
MID-cue

_ _ m. amt»; .m
43 / N 2(4(4((6(1H

pyrazol-3-

yl)pyndin727

\ N / y1>oxy>butyl>pir
l perm“
CN N\/\/\ \ yl)mcotinoniu~11e
0 N \ \

N‘N‘H

49 1.(4_((6,(1H_ m. m mu»
pyrazol-S-
y1)pyndin-Z-

N / yl)oxy)butyl)—4-
| (Z-eLhoxyphen-
OEt K/NN \ ymxpemzme
o N \ \

N‘NH

so 1,(4,((5,(1H, “xx m “a
pyrazolr}
yl)pyndlnrzr

N / yl)oxy)butyl)r4r
K/ | (2—chlorophen-

c1 N \ yl)p1perazine
N0 N \ \

91 7-(46-4- u" n m,
dihydroiso-
N qumolm-2(1H)-
\/\/\o N o yl>butoxy)-3.4-
H dihyquuinolin-
2(1 [Drone

92 HAM m H xx::
(mphmulen

yl)piperazlnrlr

N/ﬁ N yl)butoxy)-

K/N lH-indazole
\/\/\O N

93 6-(¢(4-(2- “as u :8»:
ethoxyphcn-
yl)piperazin-1-
yljbumxyHHr

N
O \ N indazole
/
OE: N
H

 

ﬂ.
anestm
(agonisl
mode)

E 5

NA

u

:x

::

Jan.3],2019
[5- ﬂ
mestin mam
(smug (antagr
onist unis!
mode) mode)
ICSJ 1mm“

* ‘uuu
u,‘ .,
..., ,..
*“* ***
,,. ..,,
*** ***
u,‘ ..u.
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31,2019
75
-continued
[5- W
5- 0- anestin arrestin
Com- CAMP CAMP arrestin arrestin (antag- (anmg-
pound (against (agonist (agonist (agonist onist onisl
Numr mode) mode) mode) mode) mode) mode)
her Compound SLructure IUPAC Name ECSO“ Em” ECSO“ Ema} ICSO“ Immb
94 / 6-(4-(4—(pyridin- “u an “n ”u NA NA
I Z-yl)piperazin—1-
\ yl)butoxy)-1H-
N N/ﬁ \ indazole
/
N
H
95 64444423, m ’3 NA NA m an
dimethylphen-
yl)pipera.zin-l-
yl)butoxy)-1H-
indazole
95 5,(¢(4,(o, ea: H “x x xx xxaa
tolyljpiperazinr
l-yl)butoxy)-
N \ lH-indazole
O IN
N\/\/\
N
O H
97 ““4425 mi a“ m: x a» a“
chlorophen—
yl)pipera.zin-l-
N \ yl)butoxy)»1H»
K/ N indazole
or N\/\/\ /
N
O H
98 6_(4_(4,(3_ w” u. n. w» n ”
chlorophen—
yl)piperazin-l-
c1 N/ﬁ \ yl)butoxy)»1H-
|\/N ,N indazole
\/\/\ N
0 H
99 OMe 5'(¢(45(35 mi xx m: x a» pres
/ I methoxypyridin»
Z-yl)piperazin-
\N N \ 17y1)butuxy)r
K/ N lHrindazole
N\/\/\ I
N
O H
a< 10 nM m'; 10 nM to 100 nM W, 100 nM lo 1 M W; 1 pm to 10 m '; >10 0M NA
b>75% w"; 50-75% W, 25-50% W; 10-25% ';<10% NA
[0524] The embodiments described above are intended to 1, A compound of formula (I):
be merely exemplary, and those skilled in the art will
recognize, or will be able to ascertain using no more than
routine experimentation, numerous equivalents of speciﬁc 2 (I)
. 4 R
compounds, materials, and procedures All such equivalents Y /
are considered to be within the scope of the disclosure and 3 A I
are encompassed by the appended claims, R\ 10 u \ ‘
. . . . ,N—(CR R ),,—W X R ,
[0525] All of the patents, patent applications and publica- R4

tions referred to herein are incorporated herein by reference
in their entireties, Citation or identiﬁcation of any reference
in this application is not an admission that such reference is
available as prior art to this application The full scope of the
disclosure is better understood with reference to the
appended claims.

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer
thereof, wherein

n is 2, 3, or 4;
W is O, NR5, or CH2;
US 2019/0031685 A1

98. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazin-
1-yl)butoxy)—1H-indazole (Compound 98)

[0501]

.mm

K/N\/\/\O

Compound 93

N
/

N

H

[0502] This compound was prepared in 26% yield as a
hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using l-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine as the
amine starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 387, 385 [M+H]*.
1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13): 6 9.97 (bs, 1H), 7.95 (d, J:0.8
Hz, 1H), 7.60 (dd, J:8.4 Hz. 0.8 Hz. 1H), 7.18-7.14 (m, 1H),
6.88-6.77 (m, 6H), 4.04 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.22 (t, J:5.2 Hz,
4H), 2.62 (t, 1:5.2 Hz, 4H), 2151-2147 (m, 2H). 1.90-1.85
(m, 2H), 1.79-1.73 (m, 2H).

99. Synthesis of 6-(4-(4-(3-methoxypyridin-2-yl)
piperazin-l-yl)butoxy)-lH-indazole (Compound 99)

[0503]

Compound 99
/ N
\ N \
K/ /N
0M: N
No 11);

[0504] This compound was prepared in 42% yield as a
hydrochloride salt using the same procedures described for
Compound 92 but using l-(3-methoxypyridin-2-yl) pipera-
zine as the amine starting material. MS (ESI): rn/z 382
[M+H]*. NMR (400 MHz, CDCIS): 8 10.7 (bs, 1H), 7.96 (s,
1H), 7.90 (d, J:5.6 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (d, 1:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.04 (d,
J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 6.88-6.80 (m, 3H), 4.03 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H),
3.85 (s, 3H), 3.45 (s, 4H), 2.66 (s, 4H), 2.51-2.47 (m, 2H),
1.89-1.85 (m, 2H), 1.77-1.73 (m, 2H).

[0505] B. In Vitro Pharmacology

[0506] Compound Handling:

[0507] Compound stock concentration was 10 mM in
DMSO. Compounds were diluted to 100x top testing con-
centration in DMSO. Serial dilutions were made in 100%
DMSO, test concentrations were 0.5 nM up to 10 uM.
Dopamine (0.1 nM up to 3 HM) and aripiprazole (i.e.,
7-{4-[4-(2.3-dich10rophenyl)piperazin-1-yl]butoxy}-3,4-di-
hydroquinolin-2(1H)—one) (0.05 nM up to 10 uM) were
included as controls on all assays plates.

[0508] Cell Lines:

[0509] Activities of the compounds were assessed using a
Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO-Kl) cell line that recombi-
nantly expressed the long isoform of human D2 receptor
(DRD2L PathHunter cells). The D2 receptor DNA sequence
was modiﬁed to contain a “ProLink” at its C-temiinus which

61

Jan. 31, 2019

allowed complementation with an “enzyme acceptor” (EA)-
tagged B-arrestin protein. The recruitment of the B-arrestin
by the D2 receptor led to complementation of the ProLink
and EA and formation of active B-galactosidase which
generated a D2-speciﬁc signal that was measured. The
CAMP assay was measured in the same D2-expressing cell
line. The D2 receptor inhibited CAMP formation so that the
basal levels of CAMP were increased by the addition of an
adenylate cyclase stimulator, forskolin.

[0510] cAMP HTRF Agonist Assay:

[0511] Two days prior to testing, a vial of high density
stock of DRD2L PathHunter cells was thawed, and cells
were diluted into 10 mL of growth media (Ham’s F12/ 10%
HI FBS/ 1% PSG) and used to seed a T225 ﬂask containing
50 mL of growth media. Cells were cultured for 2 days.
[0512] On the day of the assay, cells were dissociated in 5
mL cell dissociation buffer (enzyme freeilnvitrogen) for
10-15 minutes at 37° C. Dissociated cells were diluted with
10 mL of growth media and counted. Cell counts were
routinely ~2><107 per T225. Cells were then pelleted at 1500
rpm for 5 min. Supernatant was aspirated, and cells were
re-suspended in HESS/20 mM Hepes, pH 7.4 to a cell
density of 1x106/mL.

[0513] Five minutes before testing, 05 mM IBMX was
added to the cell suspension. An intermediate dilution of
compound (2 [LL 100x compound into 98 uL HESS/20 mM
Hepes with 20 uM forskolin) was performed. Cells were
mixed, and 5 uL of diluted compound was dispensed into
each well of an assay plate. The plate was incubated for 30
min at room temperature (RT).

[0514] cAMP levels were determined using the Cisbio
HTRF method. HRTF reagents (cAMP-HTRF acceptor ﬂuo-
rophore (d2) conjugate and cryptate-labelcd anti-cAMP anti-
body) wcre prepared according to manufacturers instruc-
tions. 5 uL of each were added to each well of an assay plate
and incubated for l h at RT. The plate was then read on an
Envision reader using the HTRF protocol, and dam were
exported for analysis.

[0515] The agonist Em,C results were expressed as a per-
cent of the dopamine control response ((measured speciﬁc
response/control speciﬁc agonist response)><100) obtained in
the presence of test article. The EC50 values (concentration
producing a half-maximal speciﬁc response) were deter-
mined by non-linear regression analysis of the concentra-
tion-response curves. According to the cAMP agonist assay,
the most active D2 agonists will have the most amount of
activity as measured by Ema, (i.e., as represented by the
grading system in the Table, from most active to least active
D2 agonist is ”“>”*>**>’*). Conversely, according to
the cAMP agonist assay, the most active D2 antagonists will
have the least amount of activity as measured by Em” (i.e.,
*>#*>t**>t#lﬂk)‘

[0516] Arrestin Agonist Assay:

[0517] One day prior to testing, a vial of high density stock
of DRD2L PathHunter cells was thawed, and 1><107 cells
diluted into 40 mL of growth media (Ham’s F12/10% HI
FB 8/ 1% P50). 20 uL cells per well were seeded directly into
assay plates, and the plates were allowed to rest for l h at RT
before incubating in a plate incubator overnight.

[0518] On the day of the assay, an intermediate dilution of
compounds was performed (5 [1L 100x compound into 95 [LL
growth media, 5x ﬁnal concentration). 5 [1L diluted com-
pound was added to cells in each well, and the assay plate
was incubated for 90 min at 37° C. 12.5 uL PathHunter
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0397] A microwave vial was charged with 4-(tributy1-
stannyl)-l -trityl-lH-imidazole (50 mg, 0.08 nnnol), 2-(4—(6-
cltloropyridin-Z-yloxy)butyl)-l ,2,3,4-tetrahydroiso-quino—
line (40-4) (25 mg, 0.08 mmol) and 1,1'-bis
(diphenylphosphino)-ferrocene]-dichloropalladium (II) (10
mg) in 1,4-dioxane (1 mL) and N,N-dimethylformamide (1
mL). The mixture was stirred at 100° C. overnight The
resulting mixture was concentrated to give a residue, which
was puriﬁed by reverse phase column chromatography (ac-
etonitrile/water:24/76, with 0.1% annnonium hydroxide) to
afford 2-(4-(6-(1-trity1—1H-imidazol-4-y1)pyridin-2—yloxy)
butyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline,

[0398] To a mixture of 2-(4-(6-(1-trityl-1H-imidazo1-4-yl)
pyridin-2—yloxy)butyl)- 1 ,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (7
mg, 0.012 mrnol) in methanol (1 mL) was added 4 M
hydrochloric acid in methanol (1 mL). The mixture was
stirred at room temperature for 2 11, and was then concen-
trated in vacuum to give the crude product, which was
puriﬁed by prep-TLC (dichloromethane/methanol:10/ 1,
with 1% triethylamine) to give Compound 51 as a yellow oil
(3.2 mg, yield: 77%). MS (ESI): m/z 349 [M+H]*. 1H NMR
(400 MHZ, CDCl3): 5 7.55-7.59 (m, 3H), 7.28 (d, J:7.6 Hz,
1H), 7.10-7.17 (m, 3H), 7.02-7.04 (m, 1H), 6.57 (d, J:8,4
Hz, 1H), 4.39 (d, J:6,4 Hz, 2H), 3.76 (s, 2H), 2.96 (1, F6
Hz, 2H), 2.86 (t, 1:6 Hz, 2H), 2.70 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H),
1.82-1.92 (m, 4H).

52. Synthesis of 7-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)-yl)butoxy)-1,8-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one (Com-
pound 52)

[0399]

(a) Synthesis of 7-(4-hydroxybutoxy)-1,8-naphthyri-
din-2(1H)-one (52-2)
[0400] A mixture of 7-cliloro-1,8-naphtliyridin-2(lH)-one
(52-1) (1.26 g, 7 mmol) and cesium carbonate (4.56 g, 14

mmol) was stirred at 1150 C. ovemight. The mixture was
diluted with methanol (6 mL) and puriﬁed by reverse phase

column chromatography (acetonitrile:wateF17:83, with
0.01% NH40H) to afford compound 52-2 (1.15 g, 70%
yield) as a light yellow solid. MS (ESI): m/z 235 [M+H]*.

(b) Synthesis of 4-(7—oxo-7,8-dihydro-1,8-naphthy-
ridin-2-yloxy)butanal (52-3)
[0401] To a solution of 7-(4-hydroxybutoxy)-1,8-naphthy-
ridin-2(1H)-one (52-2) (702 mg, 3 nmol) in dimethylsul-

Jan. 31, 2019

foxide (12 mL) and tetrahydrofuran (3 mL), was added
2-iodoxybenzoic acid (1.008 g, 3.6 mmol). After stirring at
40° C. overnight, the reaction mixture was treated with
water (20 mL) and then extracted with ethyl acetate (100
mLx3). The combined organic layers were washed with
brine, dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo
to give compound 52-3 (436 mg, 63% yield) as a yellow
solid. MS (ESI): m/z 233 [M+H]".

(c) Synthesis of 7-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-2
(1H)—y1)butoxy)-1,8-naphtl1yridin-2(1H)-one (Com-
pound 52)

[0402] To a solution of 4-(7-oxo-7,8-dihydro-1 ,8-naphthy-
ridin-2-yloxy)butanal (52-3) (24 mg, 0.1 mmol) and 1,2,3,
4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (16 mg, 0.12 mmol) in dichlo-
romethane (6 mL), was added acetic acid (6 mg, 0.1 mmol).
Aﬂer stirring for 30 min, sodium triacetoxy-borohydride (42
mg, 0.2 mmol) was added. The mixture was stirred for
another 2 h, then diluted with water (10 mL), and extracted
with dichloromethane (20 mL). The organic layer was
concentrated in vacuo, and the residue was puriﬁed by
prep-HPLC to aﬂord Compound 52 (15 mg, 43% yield) as
a pale yellow solid. MS (ESI): m/z 350 [M+H]*. 1H NMR
(400 MHz, CDCla): 5 9.80 (bs, 1H), 7.70 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H),
7.62 (d, 1:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.11 (m, 3H), 7.00 (m, 1H), 6.58 (d,
J:8,4 Hz, 1H), 6.53 (d, J:9.6 Hz, 1H), 4.41 (t, J:6.4 Hz,
2H), 3.68 (s, 2H), 2.92 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.78 (t, J:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.62 (t, 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.81 (m, 4H).

52—3
[03,.
\ \
N\/\/\ l /
O N N O
1

Compound 52

53. Synthesis of 7-(4-(6,7-dihydrothieno[3,2-c]pyri-
din-5(4H)-y1)butoxy)-1,8-naphthyridin-2(1H)-one
(Compound 53)

[0403]
Compound53
S \ \
\ I N\/\/\ I /
O N Ii] 0
H
US 2019/0031685 A1

A. Deﬁnitions

[0033] As used in the speciﬁcation and the accompanying
claims, the indeﬁnite articles “a” and “an” and the deﬁnite
article “the” include plural as well as singular referents,
unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

[0034] As used herein, and unless otherwise indicated, the
term “alkyl” refers to a linear or branched saturated mon-
ovalent hydrocarbon radical, wherein the alkyl may be
optionally substituted with one or more substituents. In
certain embodiments, the alkyl is a linear saturated mon-
ovalent hydrocarbon radical that has 1 to 20 (C 1.20), 1 to 15
(01.15): 1 I0 12 (CI-12)! 1 10 10 (C140): 01‘ 1 10 6 (Cm)
carbon atoms, or branched saturated monovalent hydrocar-
bon radical of3 to 20 (C340), 3 to 15 (C345), 3 to 12 (C342),
3 to 10 (C340), or 3 to 6 (C34,) carbon atoms. As used herein,
linear C H, and branched C3_6 alkyl groups are also referred
as “lower alkyl.” Examples of alkyl groups include, but are
not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl (including all isomeric
forms, e.g,, n»propy1, isopropyl), butyl (including all iso-
meric forms, e.g., n-butyl, isobutyl, t-butyl), pentyl (includ-
ing all isomeric forms), and hexyl (including all isomeric
forms). For example, C1,6 alkyl refers to a linear saturated
monovalent hydrocarbon radical of 1 to 6 carbon atoms or
a branched saturated monovalent hydrocarbon radical of 3 to
6 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, the alkyl is option-
ally substituted as described herein elsewhere. In some
embodiments, the alkyl is optionally substituted with one or
more halo.

[0035] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “alkenyl” refers to a linear or branched monovalent
hydrocarbon radical, which contains one or more, in one
embodiment, one to ﬁve, carbon-carbon double bonds. The
alkenyl may be optionally substituted with one or more
substituents. The term “alkenyl” also encompasses radicals
having “cis” and “trans” conﬁgurations, or alternatively, “E”
and “Z” conﬁgurations. as appreciated by those of ordinary
skill in the art. As used herein, the term “alkenyl” encom-
passes both linear and branched alkenyl, unless otherwise
speciﬁed. For example, C2_6 alkenyl refers to a linear unsatu-
rated monovalent hydrocarbon radical of 2 to 6 carbon
atoms or a branched unsaturated monovalent hydrocarbon
radical of 3 to 6 carbon atoms. In certain embodiments, the
alkenyl is a linear monovalent hydrocarbon radical of2 to 20
(C2405 210 15 (C245), 2 10 12 (C242), 2 T0 10 (C2405 0r
2 to 6 (C24,) carbon atoms, or a branched monovalent
hydrocarbon radical of3 to 20 (C340), 3 to 15 (C345), 3 to
12 (C342), 3 to 10 (C340): or 3 to 6 (CM) carbon atoms.
Examples of alkenyl groups include, but are not limited to,
ethenyl, propen-I-yl, propen-2-yl, ally], butenyl, and
4-methylbuteny1, In certain embodiments, the alkenyl is
optionally substituted as described herein elsewhere. In
some embodiments, the alkenyl is optionally substituted
with one or more halo.

[0036] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “alkynyl” refers to a linear or branched monovalent
hydrocarbon radical, which contains one or more, in one
embodiment, one to ﬁve, carbon-carbon triple bonds. The
alkynyl may be optionally substituted with one or more
substituents. The term “alkynyl" also encompasses both
linear and branched alkynyl, unless otherwise speciﬁed In
certain embodiments, the alkynyl is a linear monovalent
hydrocarbon radical of2 to 20 (C2_20), 2 to 15 (C2-15)> 2 to
12 (C24,), 2 to 10 (C240), or 2 to 6 (C24,) carbon atoms, or
a branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of 3 to 20

Jan. 31, 2019

(Cs-20): 3 10 15 (C345) 3 ‘0 12 (Cs-12): 3 to 10 (Cs-10): or
3 to 6 (C34,) carbon atoms. Examples of alkynyl groups
include, but are not limited to, ethynyl (4C=CH) and
propargyl (ACHZCECH). For example, C2,6 alkynyl refers
to a linear unsaturated monovalent hydrocarbon radical of 2
to 6 carbon atoms or a branched unsaturated monovalent
hydrocarbon radical of 3 to 6 carbon atoms, In certain
embodiments, the alkynyl is optionally substituted as
described herein elsewhere. In some embodiments, the alky-
nyl is optionally substituted with one or more halo.

[0037] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “cycloalkyl" refers to a cyclic fully or partially satu-
rated bridged and/or non-bridged hydrocarbon radical or
ring system, which may be optionally substituted with one
or more substituents. In certain embodiments, the cycloalkyl
has from 3 to 20 (C340), from 3 to 15 (C315), from 3 to 12
(CMZ), from 3 to 10 (C340), or from 3 to 7 (CM) carbon
atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include, but are not
limited to, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl,
cycloheptyl, decalinyl, and adamantyl. In certain embodi-
ments, the cycloalkyl is optionally substituted as described
herein elsewhere. In some embodiments, the cycloalkyl is
optionally substituted with one or more halo.

[0038] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “heteroalkyl” refers to a stable straight or branched
chain, consisting of the stated number of carbon atoms and
from one or more, in one embodiment, one to three, het-
eroatoms selected from the group consisting of O, N, Si, and
S, and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms are optionally
oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom can optionally be
quaternized. In one embodiment, the heteroatom(s) 0 and N
can be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl
group. In one embodiment, the heteroatom(s) S and Si can
be placed at any position of the heteroalkyl group (eg,
interior or terminal position), including the position at which
the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule.
Examples include, but are not limited to, ACHZACHZi

 

 

 

0 CH3, CH, CH, NH CH3, CH, CH, N
(CH,) CH,, CH, s CH, CH,, CH, CH, s
(0) CH,, CH, "H, 8(0), CH,, CH CH

 

04CH3, ~Si(CH3)3s 7CI124CH:N40CH3, and
ACH:CH7N(CH3)4CH3. Up to two heteroatoms can be
consecutive, such as, for example, 7CH27NH407CH3
and iCHZAOiSKCHS)? In certain embodiments, the
heteroalkyl is optionally substituted as described herein
elsewhere. In some embodiments, the heteroalkyl is option-
ally substituted with one or more halo.

[0039] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “alkoxyl” or “alkoxy” refers to a stable straight or
branched chain, or cyclic hydrocarbon radical, or combina-
tions thereof, consisting of the stated number of carbon
atoms and from one or more, in one embodiment, one to
three, 0 atoms, wherein at least one 0 atom is at the position
where the alkoxyl or alkoxy group is attached to the remain-
der of the molecule. Examples of alkoxyl include, but are not
limited to, 407CH3, iO—CFS, 7HH2%H3,
ACACHZiCHZiCHS, 704CH7(CH3)2, and
ACACHZiCHZiOACHB. In one embodiment, the
alkoxyl is optionally substituted as described herein else-
where. In some embodiments, the alkoxyl is optionally
substituted with one or more halo.

[0040] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the

term “aminoalkyl” or “alkylamino” refers to a stable straight
or branched chain, or cyclic hydrocarbon radical, or com-
US 2019/0031685 A1

In one embodiment, R1 is

kﬁTm

O

In one embodiment, R1 is

§ R8
\S/ '
“to

O

[0109] In one embodiment, R8 is (C 1-C5)alky1 or option-
ally substituted phenyli In one embodiment, R8 is (C1-C5)
alkyl, In one embodiment, R8 is optionally substituted phe-
nyl,

[0110]

In one embodiment,

 

\
N 0
H .
Y/l
\
X N O
H .
Y/l
k5
x
,or
OH

 

[0111] In one embodiment,

Jan. 31, 2019
[0112] In one embodiment,
Z
Y / I R Y /
2* \
X R1 is X N O.
H
[0113] In one embodiment,
R2
Y / Y /
| ,3 | NH.
\ \ /<
X R1 X N
H o
[0114] In one embodiment,
R2
Y / I Y /
\ kk
X R1 is X
OH
[0115] In one embodiment,
R2
Y / Y / \
| ,s | /N.
\ \
X R‘ x §
[0116] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound

of formula (II-a), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

N—(CR‘DRH),,—W X R

wherein R1, R1, R7, R10, R”, X, Y, W, and n is deﬁned
herein elsewhere.

[0117] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (II-b), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

Y/ R2
~ 91
I

N—(CR‘OR‘ljn—W X R

(1143)
US 2019/0031685 A1

wherein R1, R1, R10, R”, X, Y, W, Ring Ar, and n is deﬁned
herein elsewhere.

[0118] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (III-a), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

(1117a)

R7\N \ \
Owomlq

wherein R7 is deﬁned herein elsewhere. In one embodiment,
R7 is phenyl, pyridyl, pyridazinyl, pyrazinyl, pyrimidinyl, or
naphthyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one to
three substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C ,-C,)alky1 optionally substi-
tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C,-C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, In one embodiment, R7
is optionally substituted phenyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyridyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyridazinyl. In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyrazinyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyrimidinyl. In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted naphthyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
phenyl, optionally substituted with one to three substituents,
independently selected from halo and (C1-C3)alkyl option-
ally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro (e.g., F, Cl, Me, or
CF3). In one embodiment, R7 is pyridyl, optionally substi-
tuted with one to three substituents, independently selected
from halo and (C,-C,)alkyl optionally substituted with one
or more ﬂuoro (eg, F, C1, Me, or CF,), In one embodiment,
R7 is naphthyl.

[0119] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

Jan. 3], 2019

[0120] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (III-b), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

(1114:)

\N
/

N

H

N\/\/\0

wherein R7 is deﬁned herein elsewhere. In one embodiment,
R7 is phenyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyridazinyl, pyrazinyl, or
naphthyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one to
three substituents, independently selected from halo, cyano,
alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substi-
tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C 1 -C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, In one embodiment, R7
is optionally substituted phenyl. In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyridyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyrimidinyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyridazinyl. In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted pyrazinyl. In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substituted naphthyl. In one embodiment, R7 is
phenyl, optionally substituted with one to three substituents,
independently selected from halo, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C1-C3)alkoxyl
optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro (erg, F, Cl,
Me, CF3, OMe, OCF3, or OEt). In one embodiment, R7 is
pyridyl, optionally substituted with one to three substituents,
independently selected from halo, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C,-C,)a1koxyl
optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro (e.g,, F, C1,
Me, CF3, OMe, or OEt), In one embodiment, R7 is naphthyl.

[0121] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

\

O K/N\/\/\O/©:g\/N’
N/W m1“
OE‘ k/N\/\/\O g/Y

/ IN

\ N/\| mm
k/NNO E/

N \
ONO/0:11;”
US 2019/0031685 A1

binations thereof, consisting of the stated number of carbon
atoms and from one or more, in one embodiment, one to
three, N atoms, wherein at least one N atom is at the position
where the aminoalkyl or alkylamino group is attached to the
remainder ofthe molecule, Examples of aminoalkyl include,
but are not limited to, iNHACHp 7N(CH3)2a iNHi
CHZACHS, 7N(CH3)4CH24CH,, iNHACHi(CH,)
2, and iNHACHZiCH27N(CH3)2, In one embodiment,
the aminoalkyl is optionally substituted as described herein
elsewhere. In some embodiments, the aminoalkyl is option-
ally substituted With one or more halo.

[0041] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “aryl” refers to an optionally substituted monocyclic or
multicyclic radical or ring system that contains at least one
aromatic hydrocarbon ring, In certain embodiments, the aryl
has from 6 to 20, from 6 to 15, or from 6 to 10 ring atoms.
Examples of aryl groups include, but are not limited to,
phenyl, naphthyl, ﬂuorenyl, azulenyl, anthryl, phenanthryl,
pyrenyl, biphenyl, and terphenyl, In certain embodiments,
aryl also refers to bicyclic, tricyclic, or tetracyclic carbon
rings, where one of the rings is aromatic and the other(s) of
the rings may be saturated, partially unsaturated, or aro-
matic, for example, dihydronaphthyl, indenyl, indanyl, or
tetrahydronaphthyl (tetralinyl), In certain embodiments, aryl
may be a bicyclic, tricyclic, or tetracyclic ring system, where
at least one of the rings is aromatic and one or more of the
ring(s) is/are saturated or partially unsaturated containing
one or more heteroatoms independent y selected from O, S,
and N. In certain embodiments, the aryl is optionally sub-
stituted with one or more substituents as described herein
elsewhere.

[0042] As used herein, and unless ot ierwise speciﬁed, the
term “arylalkyl” or “aralkyl” refers to a monovalent alkyl
group substituted with aryl. An examp e of aralkyl includes,
but is not limited to, benzyl, In certain embodiments, both
alkyl and aryl may be optionally su stituted with one or
more substituents as described herein elsewhere.

[0043] As used herein, and unless ot ierwise speciﬁed, the
term “heteroarylalkyl” or “heteroaralkyl” refers to a mon-
ovalent alkyl group substituted with ieteroaryl. In certain
embodiments, both alkyl and heteroaryl may be optionally
substituted with one or more substituents as described herein
elsewhere.

[0044] As used herein, and unless ot ierwise speciﬁed, the
term “heteroaryl” refers to an optiona ly substituted mono-
cyclic or multicyclic radical or ring system which contains
at least one aromatic ring having one or more heteroatoms
independently selected from O, S, and N, In one embodi-
ment, each ring of a heteroaryl group can contain one or two
0 atoms, one or two S atoms, and/or one to four N atoms,
provided that the total number of heteroatoms in each ring
is four or less and each ring contains at least one carbon
atom, In certain embodiments, the heteroaryl has from 5 to
20, from 5 to 15, or from 5 to 10 ring atoms, In certain
embodiments, heteroaryl also refers to bicyclic, tricyclic, or
tetracyclic rings, where one of the rings is aromatic having
one or more heteroatoms independently selected from O, S,
and N, and the other(s) of the rings may be saturated,
partially unsaturated, or aromatic and may be carbocyclic or
contain one or more heteroatoms independently selected
from O, S, and N. Examples of monocyclic heteroaryl
groups include, but are not limited to, furanyl, imidazolyl,
isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, oxazolyl, pyrazinyl,
pyrazolyl, pyridazinyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, thia-

 

Jan. 3], 2019

diazolyl, thiazolyl, thienyl, tetrazolyl, triazinyl, and trial-
olyl. Examples of bicyclic heteroaryl groups include, but are
not limited to, benzofuranyl, benzimidazolyl, benzoisox-
azolyl, benzopyranyl, benzothiadiazolyl, benzothiazolyl,
benzothienyl, benzotriazolyl, benzoxazolyl, furopyridyl,
imidazopyridinyl, imidazothiazolyl, indolizinyl, indolyl,
indazolyl, isobenzofuranyl, isobenzothienyl, isoindolyl, iso-
quinolinyl, isothiazolyl, naphthyridinyl, oxazolopyridinyl,
phthalazinyl, pteridinyl, purinyl, pyridopyridyl, pyrrolo-
pyridyl, quinolinyl, quinoxalinyl, quinazolinyl, thiadiazolo-
pyrimidyl, and thienopyridyl. Examples of tricyclic het-
eroaryl groups include, but are not limited to, acridinyl,
benzindolyl, carbazolyl, dibenzofuranyl, perimidinyl,
phenanthrolinyl, phenanthridinyl, phenarsazinyl, phenazi-
nyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl, and xanthenyl, In certain
embodiments, the heteroaryl is optionally substituted with
one or more substituents as described herein elsewhere,

[0045] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “heterocycloalkyl” or “heterocyclyl” refers to an
optionally substituted monocyclic or multicyclic radical or
ring system which contains at least one non-aromatic ring
having one or more heteroatoms independently selected
from O, S, and N. In certain embodiments, the heterocyclyl
or heterocycloalkyl group has from 3 to 20, from 3 to 15,
from 3 to 10, from 3 to 8, from 4 to 7, or from 5 to 6 ring
atoms. In certain embodiments, the heterocyclyl or hetero-
cycloalkyl is a monocyclic, bicyclic, tricyclic, or tetracyclic
ring system, which may include a fused or bridged ring
system, and in which the nitrogen or sulfur atoms may be
optionally oxidized, the nitrogen atoms may be optionally
quatemized, the ring carbon atoms may be optionally sub-
stituted with oxo, and some rings may be partially or fully
saturated, or aromatic. The heterocycloalkyl or heterocyclyl
may be attached to the main structure at a heteroatom or a
carbon atom which results in the creation of a stable com-
pound, Examples include, but are not limited to, azepinyl,
benzodioxanyl, benzodioxolyl, benzofuranonyl, benzopyra-
nonyl, benzopyranyl, benzotetrahydrofuranyl, benzotetrahy-
drothienyl, benzothiopyranyl, benzoxazinyl, B-carbolinyl,
chromanyl, chromonyl, cinnolinyl, coumarinyl, decahy-
droisoquinolinyl, dihydrobenzisothiazinyl, dihydroben-
zisoxazinyl, dihydrofuryl, dihydroisoindolyl, dihydropyra-
nyl, dihydropyrazolyl, dihydropyrazinyl, dihydropyridinyl,
dihydropyrimidinyl, dihydropyrrolyl, dioxolanyl, l,4-dithi-
anyl, furanonyl, imidazolidinyl, imidazolinyl, indolinyl,
isobenzotetrahydrofuranyl, isobenzotetrahydrothienyl, iso-
chromanyl, isocoumarinyl, isoindolinyl, isothiazolidinyl,
isoxazolidinyl, morpholinyl, octahydroindolyl, octahy-
droisoindolyl, oxazolidinonyl, oxazolidinyl, oxiranyl, piper-
azinyl, piperidinyl, 4-piperidonyl, pyrazolidinyl, pyrazoli-
nyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrrolinyl, quinuclidinyl, tetrahydrofuryl,
tetrahydroisoquinolinyl, tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrothie-
nyl, thiamorpholinyl, thiazolidinyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl,
and 1,3,5-trithianyl. In certain embodiments, when the het-
erocyclyl or heterocycloalkyl ring contains one or more 0,
the heterocyclyl or heterocycloalkyl may also be referred to
as “cycloalkoxyl,” In certain embodiments, the heterocyclyl
or heterocycloalkyl is optionally substituted with one or
more substituents as described herein elsewhere.

[0046] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “halogen”, “halide" or “halo” refers to ﬂuorine, chlo-
rine, bromine, and iodine,

[0047] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “hydrogen” encompasses proton (1H), deuterium (2H),
US 2019/0031685 A1

[0057] In describing an optically active compound, the
preﬁxes R and S are used to denote the absolute conﬁgura-
tion of the molecule about its chiral center(s). The (+) and
(—) are used to denote the optical rotation of the compound,
that is, the direction in which a plane of polarized light is
rotated by the optically active compound The (—) preﬁx
indicates that the compound is levorotatory, that is, the
compound rotates the plane of polarized light to the left or
counterclockwise. The (+) preﬁx indicates that the com-
pound is dextrorotatory, that is, the compound rotates the
plane 0 polarized light to the right or clockwise However,
the sign of optical rotation, (+) and (—), is not related to the
absolute conﬁguration of the molecule, R and S.

[0058] As used herein, and unless otherwise indicated, the
term “a gout” or “approximately” means an acceptable error
for a particular value as determined by one of ordinary skill
in the art, which depends in part on how the value is
measured or determined. In certain embodiments, the term
“about" or “approximately" means within 1, 2, 3, or 4
standarc deviations. In certain embodiments, the term
“about” or “approximately” means within 50%, 20%, 15%,
10%. 9%, 8%, 7%, 6%, 5%, 4%, 3%, 2%, 1%, 0.5%, or
0.05% of a given value or range.

[0059] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “p arrnaceutically acceptable carrier,” “pharmaceuti-
cally acceptable excipient,” “physiologically acceptable car-
rier,” or “physiologically acceptable excipient” refers to a
pharmaceutically-acceptable material, composition, or
vehicle, such as a liquid or solid ﬁller, diluent, solvent, or
encapsu ating material. In one embodiment, each compo-
nent is “pharmaceutically acceptable” in the sense of being
compati le with the other ingredients of a pharmaceutical
formulation, and suitable for use in contact with the tissue or
organ 0 hlunans and animals without excessive toxicity,
irritation, allergic response, immunogenicity, or other prob-
lems or complications, commensurate with a reasonable
beneﬁt/risk ratio. See, Remington: The Science and Practice
ofPharmacy, let Edition, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins:
Philadelphia, Pa., 2005; Handbook of Pharmaceutical
Excipients, 5th Edition, Rowe et al., Eds., The Pharmaceu-
tical Press and the American Pharmaceutical Association:
2005; and Handbook of Pharmaceutical Additives, 3rd Edi-
tion, Ash and Ash Eds, Gower Publishing Company: 2007;
Pharmaceutical Preformulation and Formulation, 2nd Edi-
tion, Gibson Ed, CRC Press LLC: Boca Raton, Fla., 2009.
[0060] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
terms “active ingredient” and “active substance” refer to a
compound, which is administered, alone or in combination
with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, to
a subject for treating, preventing, or ameliorating one or
more symptoms of a condition, disorder, or disease. As used
herein, “active ingredient” and “active substance” may be an
optically active isomer of a compound described herein.
[0061] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
terms “drug” and “therapeutic agent” refer to a compound,
or a pharmaceutical composition thereof, which is admin-
istered to a subject for treating, preventing, managing, or
ameliorating one or more symptoms of a condition, disorder,
or disease,

[0062] As used herein, and unless otherwise indicated the
terms “treat,” “treating” and “treatment” refer to the eradi-
cation or amelioration of a disease or disorder, or of one or
more symptoms associated with the disease or disorder. In
certain embodiments, the terms refer to minimizing the

 

Jan. 3], 2019

spread or worsening of the disease or disorder resulting from
the administration of one or more prophylactic or therapeu-
tic agents to a subject with such a disease or disorder. In
some embodiments, the terms refer to the administration of
a compound provided herein, with or without other addi-
tional active agent, aﬁer the onset of symptoms of the
particular disease.

[0063] As used herein, and unless otherwise indicated, the
terms “prevent,” “preventing” and “prevention” refer to the
prevention of the onset, recurrence or spread of a disease or
disorder, or of one or more symptoms thereof. In certain
embodiments, the terms refer to the treatment with or
administration of a compound provided herein, with or
without other additional active compound, prior to the onset
of symptoms, particularly to patients at risk of disease or
disorders provided herein. The terms encompass the inhibi-
tion or reduction of a symptom of the particular disease,
Patients with familial history of a disease in particular are
candidates for preventive regimens in certain embodiments.
In addition, patients who have a history of recurring symp-
toms are also potential candidates for the prevention. In this
regard, the term “prevention” may be interchangeably used
with the term “prophylactic treatment.”

[0064] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
terms “manage,” “managing,” and “management" refer to
preventing or slowing the progression, spread or worsening
of a disease or disorder, or of one or more symptoms thereof.
Oﬁen, the beneﬁcial eifects that a subject derives from a
prophylactic and/or therapeutic agent do not result in a cure
of the disease or disorder. In this regard, the term “manag-
ing” encompasses treating a patient who had suffered from
the particular disease in an attempt to prevent or minimize
the recurrence of the disease,

[0065] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed,
“amelioration" of the symptoms ofa particular disorder by
administration of a particular pharmaceutical composition
refers to any lessening, whether permanent or temporary,
lasting or transient, that can be attributed to or associated
with the administration of the composition.

[0066] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, a
“therapeutically effective amount" of a compound is an
amount suﬁicient to provide a therapeutic beneﬁt in the
treatment or management of a disease or disorder, or to delay
or minimize one or more symptoms associated with the
disease or disorder. A therapeutically effective amount of a
compound means an amount of therapeutic agent, alone or
in combination with other therapies, which provides a thera-
peutic beneﬁt in the treatment or management of the disease
or disorder. The term “therapeutically effective amount” can
encompass an amount that improves overall therapy, reduces
or avoids symptoms or causes of disease or disorder, or
enhances the therapeutic eﬁicacy of another therapeutic
agent.

[0067] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, a
“prophylactically elfective amount” of a compound is an
amount suﬂicient to prevent a disease or disorder, or prevent
its recurrence, A prophylactically eﬁ'ective amount of a
compound means an amount of therapeutic agent, alone or
in combination with other agents, which provides a prophy-
lactic beneﬁt in the prevention of the disease. The term
“prophylactically effective amount” can encompass an
amount that improves overall prophylaxis or enhances the
prophylactic efﬁcacy of another prophylactic agent.
US 2019/0031685 A1

is not
Y /
| NH.
\ ,4
X N
H
O
[0105] In one embodiment, Ar is an optionally substituted

benzo ring, and

 

is not

In one embodiment, Ar is an optionally substituted benzo
ring, and

is not

In one embodiment, Ar is an optionally substituted benzo
ring, and

Jan. 3], 2019

is not

NH.

M

O

In one embodiment, Ar is an optionally substituted benzo
ring, and

 

is not
\N.
/
N
H
[0106] In one embodiment, n is 4 and W is O, In one

embodiment, W is 0 or NR5. In one embodiment, n is 4, and
W is O or NR5.

[0107] In one embodiment, R10 is H and R11 is H.
[0108] In one embodiment, R1 is

wherein R8 is (C1-C5)alky1 or optionally substituted phenyl.
In one embodiment, R1 is

N—NH.

In one embodiment, R1 is
US 2019/0031685 A1

39

[0309] This compound was prepared in 17% yield (last
step) (11 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 1-(3—ethoxypyridin-2-yl)piperazine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 423 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDCIJ): 8 8.00 (d, J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 7.87 (dd, Jl:4.0 Hz,
J2:0.8 Hz, 1H), 760 (hrs, 1H), 729-725 (1117 2H), 7.15 (dd,
J1:6.0 Hz, J2:1.2 Hz, 1H), 7.02 (d, J:5.6 Hz, 1H), 6.93 (d,
J:7.2 Hz, 1H), 6.80 (m7 1H), 4.50 (1, 1:5.6 HZ, 2H)7 4.05 (q,
J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.49 (brs, 4H), 2.67 (brs, 4H), 2.52 (I, J:6.0
Hz, 2H), 1.92 (m, 2H), 1.77 (m, 2H), 1.47 (t, 1:5.2 Hz, 3H).

11. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(3-propoxypyridin-2-yl)
piperazin-l-y1)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 11)

[0310]
Compound 11
N/ I
\ (\N \
/ /\/\/N\) CPI
N O
OH
[0311] This compound was prepared in 20% yield (last

step) (20 mg) as a yellow oil as described for Compound 5
but using 1-(3-propoxypyridin-2-y1)piperazine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 43712 [M+H]‘. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 6 8.01-8.03 (d, 1:8.8 Hz, 1H). 7.86-7.87 (d,
JﬂlA Hz, 1H), 7.25-7.32 (m, 2H), 7.14-7.16 (m, 2H),
7.91-7.96 (m, 2H), 4.49-4.52 (t, 1:6.0 Hz, 2H), 4.28 (s, 2H),
3.94-3.99 (m, 2H), 3.65 (s, 4H). 3.08-3.20 (m. 4H), 183-2.
08 (m, 6H), 1.05-1.08 (t, J:7.6 Hz, 2H).

12. Synthesis of 2-(4-(3,4-dihydroisoquinolin-Z
(1H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 12)

[0312]

Compound 12

/ /\/\/N
N 0

OH

[0313] This compound was prepared in 18% yield (last
step) (9.2 mg) as a yellow oil as described for Compound 5
but using 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 349 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCIS): 6 8.00 (d1 J:8.8 HZ, 1H), 7.31-7.25 (m7 2H),
7.17-7.10 (m. 4H), 7.05-7.03 (m, 1H), 4.51 (1, 1:6.4 Hz,
2H), 3.69 (s, 2H), 2.95 (t, 1:6.0 HZ, 2H), 2.80 (t, 1:6.0 Hz,
2H), 2.64 (t, 1:7.2 HZ, 2H), 1.95 (m, 2H), 1.86 (m, 2H).

Jan. 31, 2019

131 Synthesis of 2-(4-(6-inethoxy-3,4-dihyd.roiso-
quinolin-2( 1 H) -y1)butoxy)quinol in-8-ol (Compound

13)

[0314]
Compound 13
\ OMe

/ /\/\/N
N O

OH

[0315] This compound was prepared in 25% yield (last

step) (14 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 6-methoxy-l ,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline as the
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 379 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 6 8.00 (d, 1:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.31-7.26 (m, 2H),
7.15 (dd, J1:6.8 Hz, J2:1.6 Hz, 1H), 6.55 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
6.27 (d, J:9.2 Hz, 1H), 4.51 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.78 (s. 3H),
3.67 (s, 2H), 2.92 (m, 2H), 2.82 (t, J:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.67 (t,
J:7.6 Hz, 2H), 1.95-1.86 (m, 4H).

14 Synthesis of 2-(4-(6-chloro-3,4-dihydroisoqui-
nolin-2(1H)-y1)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound
14)

[0316]

Compound 14
C1
\
/ /\/\/ N
N O

[0317] This compound was prepared in 17% yield (last
step) (10 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 6-ch10ro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydioisoquinoline as the
starting material. MS (ESI): m/z 383 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400
MHz, CDC13): 5 8.00 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.31-7.26 (m, 2H),
7.15 (dd, J1:6.8 Hz, J2:1.6 Hz, 1H), 6.55 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H),
6.27(d,.1:9.2Hz, 1H), 4.51 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.78 (s, 3H),
3.67 (s, 2H), 2.92 (m, 2H), 2.82 (t, 1:5.6 Hz, 2H), 2.67 (1,
1:76 Hz, 2H), 1.95-1.86 (m, 4H)

OH

15. Synthesis of 2-(4-((8-hydroxyquinolin-2-yl)oxy)
butyl)-1,2,3,4-tet1ahydroisoquinoline-6-carbonitrile
(Compound 15)

[0318]

Compound 15

\ CN
/ /\/\/N
N 0

0H
US 2019/0031685 A1

38

1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCIS): as 8.00 (d, 1:84 Hz, 1H), 7159
(bs, 1H), 7.26 (m, 2H), 7.13 (m. 3H), 6.95 (dd, J:2.8, 6.8 Hz,
1H), 6.91 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 4.49 (t, 1:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.08 (s,
4H), 2.67 (s, 4H), 2.52 (t, J:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.92 (m, 2H), 1.76
(m, 2H),

6. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(naphthalen-1-y1)piperazin-
1-yl)butoxy)quinolin—8-ol (Compound 6)

[0300]

Compound 6

OH

[0301] This compound was prepared in 21% yield (last
step) (27 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 1-(naphthalen-1-yl)piperazine as the starting
material. MS (ESI): m/z 428 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHZ,
CDCIS): 6 8.20 (m, 1H), 7.99 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.81 (m,
1H), 7.54 (d, J:8.4 HZ. 1H), 7.46 (m, 2H), 7.39 (I, J:7.6 Hz,
1H), 7.28 (m, 1H), 7.24 (m, 1H), 7,14 (dd, J:210 Hz, 712 Hz,
1H), 7.08 (m, 1H), 6.93 (d, J:814 Hz, 1H), 450 (t, J:6,8 Hz,
2H), 3116 (s, 4H), 2.78 (s, 4H), 2.58 (t, J:716 Hz, 2H), 1193
(m, 1H), 1.80 (m, 1H).

7. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(2,3-dirnethylphenyl)piper-
azin—l -y1)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 7)

[0302]

Compound 7

OH

[0303] This compound was prepared in 18% yield (last
step) (22 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 1-(2,3-dimet.hy1pheny1)piperazine as the starting
material. Ms (ESI): m/z 406 [M+H]*. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CD013): as 7.98 (d, J:8,8 Hz, 1H), 7.59 (bs, 1H), 7128 (m,
2H), 7.23 (m, 3H), 7.14 (dd, J:116 Hz, 712 Hz, 1H), 7107 (t,
J:7.6 Hz, 1H), 6.91 (1, J:8,4 Hz, 2H), 4.49 (t, J:610 Hz, 2H),
2.93 (t, J:4.s Hz, 4H), 2.66 (s, 4H), 2.53 (t, 1:76 Hz, 2H),
2.25 (s, 3H), 2.20 (s, 3H), 1.91 (m, 1H), 1.79 (m, 1H).

Jan. 31, 2019

8, Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(pyridin-2-y1)piperazin-l-yl)
butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 8)

[0304]
Compound 8
N / I
\ (\N \
/ Wkly
N O
OH
[0305] This compound was prepared in 22% yield (last

step) (25 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound
5 but using 1-(pyridin-2-yl)piperazine as the starting mate-
rial. Ms (ESI): m/z 379 [M+H]+. ‘H NMR (400 MHz,
CDC13): a 8.19 (dd, 1:16 Hz, 4.8 Hz, 1H), 7.99 (d, J:9.2
Hz, 1H), 7.47 (m, 1H), 7128 (m, 1H), 7.24 (m, 1H), 7.13 (dd,
1:1.6 Hz, 6.8 Hz, 1H), 6,91 (d. 1:8,8 Hz, 1H), 6,63 (m, 2H),
4.49 (t, J:6.4 Hz, 2H), 3.56 (t, J:4.8 Hz, 4H), 2.58 (t, 1:5.2
Hz. 4H), 2.49 (1. 1:7.2 Hz, 2H), 1.90 (m, 1H), 1.78 (m, 1H).

9. Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(3-methoxypyridin-2-yl)
piperazin-l-yl)butoxy)quinolin-8—ol (Compound 9)
[0306]

Compound 9
N /

\ (\N \
/ /\/\/N\) OMe
N O
OH

[0307] This compound was prepared in 7% yield (last
step) (4 mg) as a yellow solid as described for Compound 5
but using 1-(3-methoxypyridin-2-y1)piperazine as the start-
ing material. MS (ESI): m/z 409 [M+H]*. NMR (400 MHz,
CDSOD): 6 8.85 (d, J:8.4 Hz, 1H), 7.84 (d. J:7.6 Hz, 1H),
7.81 (d, J:6.0 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (d, J:8.8 Hz, 1H), 7.60-7.53 (m,
2H), 4106 (s, 4H), 3174 (brs, 4H), 342 (hrs, 4H), 214 (hrs,
4H),

10 Synthesis of 2-(4-(4-(3-ethoxypyridin-2-yl)pip-
erazin-l -yl)butoxy)quinolin-8-ol (Compound 10)

[0303]

Compound 10

OH
US 2019/0031685 A1

optionally substituted with one to three R6. In one embodi-
ment, R1 and R2 together with the carbon atoms to which
they are attached form a 7-membered cycloalkyl ring,
optionally substituted with one to three R6, In one embodi-
ment, R1 and R2 together with the carbon atoms to which
they are attached form a 7-membered heterocyclyl ring,
optionally substituted with one to three RSI

[0098] In one embodiment, R3 and R4 together with the
nitrogen atom to which they are attached form an optionally
substituted heterocyclyl Q.

[0099] In one embodiment, Q is

18— NYL-
\_/

In one embodiment, Q is

go,

[0100] In one embodiment, R5 is H, In one embodiment,
R5 is (C1-C3)alkyl,

[0101] In one embodiment, R6 is CH. In one embodiment,
R6 is keto. In one embodiment, R6 is halogen. In one
embodiment, R'5 is CN. In one embodiment, R6 is (C1-C3)
alkyl, In one embodiment, R6 is (C1-C3)alkoxyli

[0102] In one embodiment, R7 is 5- to lO-membered aryl,
optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In one
embodiment, R7 is 5- to 10-membered heteroaryl, optionally
substituted with one to three substituents. In one embodi-
ment, R7 is 5-membered aryl, optionally substituted with one
to three substituents. In one embodiment, R7 is 6-membered
aryl, optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In
one embodiment, R7 is 7-membered aryl, optionally substi-
tuted with one to three substituentsi In one embodiment, R7
is 8-membered aryl, optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, In one embodiment, R7 is 9-membered aryl,
optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In one
embodiment, R7 is lO-membered aryl. optionally substituted
with one to three substituents. In one embodiment, R7 is
5-membered heteroaryl, optionally substituted with one to
three substituents. In one embodiment, R7 is 6-membered
heteroaryl, optionally substituted with one to three substitu-
ents, In one embodiment, R7 is 7-membered heteroaryl,
optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In one
embodiment, R7 is 8-membered heteroaryl, optionally sub-
stituted with one to three substituents. In one embodiment,
R7 is 9-membered heteroaryl, optionally substituted with
one to three substituents, In one embodiment, R7 is 10-mem-
bered heteroaryl, optionally substituted with one to three
substituents,

[0103] In one embodiment, Ring Ar is a benzo, pyrazolo,
pyrido, thieno, pyrimido, pyrazino, furano, pyridazino, thi-
azolo, or imidazolo ring, each optionally substituted with
one to three substituentsi In one embodiment, Ring Ar is a
benzo ring, optionally substituted with one to three substitu-
ents, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is a pyramlo ring,

Jan. 3], 2019

optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In one
embodiment, RingAr is a pyrido ring, optionally substituted
with one to three substituents. In one embodiment, Ring Ar
is a thieno ring, optionally substituted with one to three
substituents, In one embodiment, RingAr is a pyrimido ring,
optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In one
embodiment, Ring Ar is a pyrazino ring, optionally substi-
tuted with one to three substituents. In one embodiment,
Ring Ar is a furano ring, optionally substituted with one to
three substituents, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is a
pyridazino ring, optionally substituted with one to three
substituents. In one embodiment, Ring Ar is a thiazolo ring,
optionally substituted with one to three substituents. In one
embodiment, Ring Ar is a imidazolo ring, optionally sub-
stituted with one to three substituents.

[0104] In one embodiment, Q is
R2
,_ Y /
7—
R N 1 and ZR I
\ l X R
is not

In one embodiment, Q is

/ ‘% ﬂ
R7—N N 1
\_/ ,m X R

is not

In one embodiment, Q is

Y/ R2
R7—N N7L 2:1 l
\_/ , m X R
US 2019/0031685 A1

tritium (3 H), and/or mixtures thereof In a compound
described herein, one or more positions occupied by hydro-
gen may be enriched with deuterium and/or tritium, Such
isotopically enriched analogs may be prepared from suitable
isotopically labeled starting material obtained from a com-
mercial source or prepared using known literature proce-
dures,

[0048] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “optionally substituted” is intended to mean that a
group, such as an alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, het-
eroalkyl, alkoxyl, aminoalkyl, aryl, aralkyl, heteroaralkyl,
heteroaryl, or heterocyclyl, may be substituted with one or
more substituents independently selected from, e,g,, (a) C1,6
alkyl, C2_6 alkenyl, CM alkynyl, C3_7 cycloalkyl, C54,, aryl,
C7_15 aralkyl, heteroaryl, and heterocyclyl, each optionally
substituted with one or more, in one embodiment, one, two,
three, or four, substituents Q’; and (b) halo, cyano (ACN),
nitro (iNOZ), oxo (40), 4C(O)R“, 4C(O)OR“, 4C(O)
NRbR”, 4C(N'R“)NR”R”, 70R“, 40C(0)R“, 40C(O)
OR“, 70C(O)NR”R“, 40C(:NR“)NR1’R”, 408(O)R“,
OS(O)2R“, 48(O)NRbRC, iOS(O)2NRbRC, iNRbRC,
iNR”C(O)Rd, iNR“C(O)ORd, NR“C(O)NR”RC, iNR’ZC
(:NRﬁNRbRC, iNR“S(O)Rd, NR“S(O)2R", iNRas
(O)NR"RC, iNR“S(O)2NR"R”, ism, 73(O)R”, is(0)
2R", iS(O)NRbRC, and iS(O)2NRbRC, wherein each R“,
R”, R”, and Rd is independently (i) hydrogen; (ii) CH, alkyl,
C2_6 alkenyl, C245 alkynyl, C3_7 cycloalkyl, C6_14 aryl, C7_15
aralkyl, heteroaryl, or heterocyclyl, each optionally substi-
tuted with one or more, in one embodiment, one, two, three,
or four, substituents Q‘; or (iii) Rb and RC together with the
N atom to which they are attached form heteroaryl or
heterocyclyl, optionally substituted with one or more, in one
embodiment, one, two, three, or four, substituents Q'. As
used herein, all groups that can be substituted are “optionally
substituted,” unless otherwise speciﬁed,

[0049] In one embodiment, each Q' is independently
selected from the group consisting of (a) cyano, halo, oxo,
and nitro; and (b) C1,6 alkyl, C276 alkenyl, C2,6 alkynyl, C3,7
cycloalkyl, Ct,_14 aryl, C7_15 aralkyl, heteroaryl, and hetero-
cyclyl; and (c) 4(O)Re, 4C(O)OR”, 4C(O)NRng,
4(NRoNRfRE, iORe, 4C(O)RE, 70C(O)OR9, 4C
(0)NRng, 70C(:NRE)NR/Rg, 43s(0)R9, 708(0)2R2,
408(O)NRng, iOS(O)ZNRng, iNR/Rg, i Rec(o)
R”, 7NR2C(O)OR”, 7NR2C(0)N'RfR3, 7NR2C(7NR")
NR’Rg, iNRES(O)Rh, iN'ReS(O)2RZ, iNR£S(O)NRng,
iNR”S(O)2NR/Rg, ~S(O)RZ, 78(O)2R2, iS(O)NR/‘Rg,
and iS(O)2NRng; wherein each R9, Rf, Rg, and Rh is
independently (i) hydrogen; (ii) C1_6 alkyl, C2_6 alkenyl, C2_6
alkynyl, C3,7 cycloalkyl, C6714 aryl, C7,15 aralkyl, heteroaryl,
or heterocyclyl; or (iii) Rf and R3 together with the N atom
to which they are attached form heteroaryl or heterocyclyl,

 

[0050] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “pharmaceutically acceptable salts” refers to salts
prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non-toxic acids,
including inorganic acids and organic acids; or from phar-
maceutically acceptable non-toxic bases, including inor-
ganic bases and organic bases, In one embodiment, suitable
non-toxic acids include, but are not limited to, acetic,
alginic, anthranilic, benzenesulfonic, benzoic, camphorsul-
fonic, citric, ethenesulfonic, formic, fumaric, furoic, glu-
conic, glutamic, glucorenic, galacturonic, glycidic, hydro-
bromic, hydrochloric, isethionic, lactic, maleic, malic,
mandelic, methanesulfonic, mucic, nitric, pamoic, pantoth-

Jan. 3], 2019

enic, phenylacetic, propionic, phosphoric, salicylic, stearic,
succinic, sulfanilic, sulfuric, tartaric acid, and p-toluenesul-
fonic.

[0051] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “solvate” refers to a compound provided herein or a salt
thereof, which further includes a stoichiometric or non-
stoichiometric amount of solvent bound by non-covalent
intermolecular forces. Where the solvent is water, the sol-
vate is a hydrate,

[0052] As used herein, and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “stereoisomer” encompasses all enantiomerically/ste-
reomerically pure and enantiomerically/stereomerically
enriched compounds provided herein,

[0053] As used herein and unless otherwise speciﬁed, the
term “stereomerically pure” means a composition that com-
prises one stereoisomer of a compound and is substantially
free of other stereoisomers of that compound, For example,
a stereomerically pure composition of a compound having
one chiral center will be substantially free of the opposite
enantiomer of the compound. A stereomerically pure com-
position of a compound having two chiral centers will be
substantially free of other diastereomers of the compound. A
typical stereomerically pure compound comprises greater
than about 80% by weight of one stereoisomer of the
compound and less than about 20% by weight of other
stereoisomers of the compound, greater than about 90% by
weight of one stereoisomer of the compolmd and less than
about 10% by weight of the other stereoisomers of the
compound, greater than about 95% by weight of one ste-
reoisomer of the compound and less than about 5% by
weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound, greater
than about 97% by weight of one stereoisomer of the
compound and less than about 3% by weight of the other
stereoisomers of the compound, or greater than about 99%
by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less
than about 1% by weight of the other stereoisomers of the
compound.

[0054] As used herein and unless otherwise indicated, the
term “stereomerically enriched” means a composition that
comprises greater than about 55% by weight of one stereoi-
somer of a compound, greater than about 60% by weight of
one stereoisomer of a compound, greater than about 70% by
weight, or greater than about 80% by weight of one stereoi-
somer of a compound,

[0055] As used herein, and unless otherwise indicated, the
term “enantiomerically pure” means a stereomerically pure
composition of a compound having one chiral center. Simi-
larly, the term “enantiomerically enrich " means a ste-
reomerically enriched composition of a compound having
one chiral center,

[0056] In certain embodiments, as used herein, and unless
otherwise speciﬁed, “optically active” and “enantiomeri-
cally active” refer to a collection of molecules, which has an
enantiomeric excess of no less than about 50%, no less than
about 70%, no less than about 80%, no less than about 90%,
no less than about 91%, no less than about 92%, no less than
about 93%, no less than about 94%, no less than about 95%,
no less than about 96%, no less than about 97%, no less than
about 98%, no less than about 99%, no less than about
995%, or no less than about 99.8%. In certain embodiments,
the compound comprises about 95% or more of the desired
enantiomer and about 5% or less of the less preferred
enantiomer based on the total weight of the racemate in
question,
US 2019/0031685 A1

disorders, addiction, among others, continue to affect the
health and quality of life of many patients. Thus, there
remains a great need for effective treatments of various CNS
or neurological disorders, with reduced undesirable side
effects.

[0011] Citation of any references in this Section of the
application is not to be construed as an admission that such
reference is prior art to the present application,

III, SUMMARY

[0012] Provided herein are compounds of formula (I), or
pharmaceutically acceptable salts or stereoisomers thereof:

(1)

R3\ kl

/N—(CR“‘R‘ 1),,—W X R‘
R4

wherein R1, R2, R3, R4, R”, R“, X, Y, W, and n are deﬁned
herein elsewhere. The compounds are useful for treating
various diseases or disorders, such as CNS disorders and
neurological disorders

[0013] Also provided herein are compositions or dosage
forms comprising, a compound provided herein, or a phar-
maceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, diluent, or carrier. In
one embodiment, compositions or dosage forms provided
herein may be co-administered with one or more additional
active ingredients, In one embodiment, compositions or
dosage forms provided herein may further comprise one or
more additional active ingredients,

[0014] Also provided herein are methods for the treat-
ment, prevention, and/or management of various disorders,
such as a CNS disorder or a neurological disorder, e.g,, the
treatment, prevention, and/or amelioration of one or more
sw‘nptoms of a disorder, using the compounds, or phanna-
ceutically acceptable salts or stereoisomers thereof, or the
compositions provided herein. In one embodiment, a method
provided herein further comprises administering to the sub-
ject a second active agent.

[0015] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, or managing a CNS disorder or a
neurological disorder, comprising administering to a subject
a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a
compound provided herein, or a pharmaceutically accept-
able salt or stereoisomer thereof

[0016] In one embodiment, the disorders provided herein
include, but are not limited to, schizophrenia, psychosis,
schizophrenia-related disorder, schizophrenia spectrum dis-
order, acute schizophrenia, chronic schizophrenia, NOS
schizophrenia, schizoaﬁective disorder, schizophrenifonn
disorder, paraphrenia, paranoid personality disorder, schiz-
oid personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder,
delusional disorder, psychosis, disease having a psychosis
component, psychotic disorder, brief psychotic disorder,
Alzheimer’s psychosis, Parkinson’s psychosis, shared psy-
chotic disorder, substance-induced psychotic disorder, psy-
chotic disorder due to a general medical condition, psycho-
aﬁective disorder, aggression, delirium, excitative

Jan. 3], 2019

psychosis, Tourette’s syndrome, manic disorder, organic
psychosis, or NOS psychosis.

[0017] In another embodiment, the disorders provided
herein include, but are not limited to, Parkinson’s disease,
movement disorder, ataxia, dystonia, essential tremor, Hun-
tington’s disease, multiple system atrophy, myoclonus, pro-
gressive supranuclear palsy, rett syndrome, secondary par-
kinsonism, spasticity, tardive dyskinesia, Wilson’s disease,
dyskinesia, or restless leg syndrome.

[0018] In another embodiment, the disorders provided
herein include, but are not limited to, affective disorder;
depression; major depressive episode of the mild, moderate
or severe type; a manic or mixed mood episode; a hypo-
manic mood episode; a depressive episode with atypical
features; a depressive episode with melancholic features; a
depressive episode with catatonic features; a mood episode
with postpartum onset; post-stroke depression; major
depressive disorder; treatment resistant depression; dysthy-
mic disorder; minor depressive disorder; premenstrual dys-
phoric disorder; post-psychotic depressive disorder of
schizophrenia; a major depressive disorder superimposed on
a psychotic disorder (e.g,, delusional disorder or schizophre-
nia); a bipolar disorder; bipolar I disorder; bipolar II disor-
der; cyclothymic disorder; attention deﬁcit disorder (ADD);
or attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

[0019] In another embodiment, the disorders provided
herein include, but are not limited to, addiction or substance
abuse,

[0020] In another embodiment, the disorders provided
herein, include, but are not limited to, posttraumatic stress
disorder, behavior disorder, neurodegenerative disease,
Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, mood disorder, anxiety,
depression, major depressive disorder, unipolar depression,
treatment resistant depression, dysthymia, affective disorder,
seasonal affective disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder,
attention deﬁcit disorder, attention deﬁcit hyperactivity dis-
order, vertigo, pain, neuropathic pain, sensitization accom-
panying neuropathic pain, inﬂammatory pain, ﬁbromyalgia,
migraine, cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment asso-
ciated with schizophrenia, cognitive deﬁcit in Alzheimer’s
disease, cognitive deﬁcit in Parkinson’s disease, movement
disorder, restless leg syndrome, multiple sclerosis, sleep
disorder, substance abuse or dependency, addiction, eating
disorder, or autism,

[0021] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing schizophrenia, psy-
chosis, or Parkinson’s disease, comprising administering a
compound provided herein, or a pharmaceutically accept-
able salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical com-
position provided herein, to a subject in need thereof.
[0022] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing Parkinson’s disease or
a movement disorder, including but not limited to, Ataxia,
dystonia, essential tremor, Huntington’s disease, multiple
system atrophy, myoclonus, Parkinson's disease, progres-
sive supranuclear palsy, rett syndrome, secondary parkin-
sonism, spasticity, tardive dyskinesia, Wilson's disease, dys-
kinesia, and restless leg syndrome, comprising
administering a compound provided herein, or a pharma-
ceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a phar-
maceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in need
thereof

[0023] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing schizophrenia, psy-
US 2019/0031685 A1

sode with melancholic features; a depressive episode with
catatonic features; a mood episode with postpartum onset;
post-stroke depression; major depressive disorder; unipolar
depression; treatment resistant depression; dysthymic disor-
der; minor depressive disorder; premenstrual dysphoric dis-
order; post-psychotic depressive disorder of schizophrenia;
a major depressive disorder superimposed on a psychotic
disorc er (e.g., delusional disorder or schizophrenia); a bipo-
lar disorder (e.g., bipolar I disorder, bipolar II disorder, or
cyclothymic disorder); seasonal aﬁective disorder; an anxi-
ety disorder (e.g., panic disorder, speciﬁc phobia, social
phobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, posttraumatic stress
disorc er, acute stress disorder, generalized anxiety disorder,
anxiety disorder due to a general medical condition); atten-
tion ceﬁcit disorder (ADD); and attention deﬁcit hyperac-
tivity disorder (ADHD); comprising administering a com-
pounc provided herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
or stereoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
proviced herein, to a subject in need thereof.

[0189] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating. preventing, and/or managing a neurologic disorder,
incluc ing but not limited to, major depressive episode of the
mild, moderate or severe type, manic or mixed mood
episo e, hypomanic mood episode, depressive episode with
atypical features, depressive episode with melancholic fea-
tures, depressive episode with catatonic features, mood
episoce with postpartum onset, post-stroke depression,
major depressive disorder, dysthymic disorder, minor
depressive disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, post-
psychotic depressive disorder of schizophrenia, a major
depressive disorder superimposed on a psychotic disorder
comprising a delusional disorder or schizophrenia, bipolar
disorder, bipolar I disorder, bipolar II disorder. or cyclothy-
mic disorder, comprising administering to a subject an
effective amount of a compound provided herein.

[0190] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing attention deﬁcit dis-
order (ADD) or attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD), comprising administering to a subject an eﬁective
amount of a compound provided herein,

[0191] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing addiction, comprising
administering a compound provided herein, or a pharma-
ceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a phar-
maceutical composition provided herein, to a subject in need
thereof

[0192] In one embodiment. provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing substance abuse or
dependency, comprising administering a compound pro-
vided herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ste-
reoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition pro-
vided herein, to a subject in need thereof

[0193] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing addiction or sub stance
abuse or dependency, including but not limited to, addiction
to, dependency on, or abuse of alcohol, nicotine, amphet-
amine, cocaine, or opiate. comprising administering a com-
pound provided herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
or stereoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
provided herein, to a subject in need thereof.

[0194] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a drug addiction,
including but not limited to, an alcohol, amphetamine,
cocaine, and/or opiate addiction, comprising administering

 

Jan. 3], 2019

to a subject an eifective amount of a compound provided
herein. In one embodiment, the drug addiction provided
herein represents an abnormal desire for a drug and is
generally characterized by motivational disturbances such a
compulsion to take the desired drug and episodes of intense
drug craving.

[0195] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing substance abuse, com-
prising administering to a subject an effective amount of a
compound provided herein. In one embodiment, provided
herein is a method of treating, preventing, and/or managing
substance dependency, comprising administering to a sub-
ject an effective amount of a compound provided herein.
[0196] In other emboc iments, provided herein is a method
of treating, preventing, and/or managing a CNS disorder or
a neurological disorder, including, but not limited to, post-
traumatic stress disorder, behavior disorder, neurodegenera-
tive disease, Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, mood disorder,
anxiety, obsessive-com ulsive disorder, vertigo, pain, neu-
ropathic pain, sensitization accompanying neuropathic pain,
inﬂammatory pain, ﬁbromyalgia, migraine, cognitive disor-
der, cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment associated
with schizophrenia, cognitive deﬁcit in Alzheimer's disease,
cognitive deﬁcit in Par inson’s disease, multiple sclerosis,
sleep disorder, eating disorder, or autism, comprising admin-
istering a compound provided herein, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical
composition provided herein, to a subject in need thereof
[0197] In one embo iment, the neurological disorder is
excessive daytime sleepiness, In another embodiment, the
neurological disorder is cognitive impairment. In another
embodiment, the neuro ogical disorder is mood disorders. In
another embodiment, t e neurological disorder is attention
disorders. In another embodiment, the neurological disorder
is vertigo. In another embodiment, the neurological disorder
is pain. In another embodiment, the neurological disorder is
neuropathic pain. In another embodiment, the neuropathic
pain is diabetic neuropathy.

[0198] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing cognitive impairment,
including but not limited to cognitive impairment associated
with schizophrenia, cognitive deﬁcit in Alzheimer's disease,
cognitive deﬁcit in Parkinson’s disease, comprising admin-
istering to a subject an effective amount of a compound
provided herein.

[0199] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a disorder comprising
a symptom of deﬁciency in attention and/or cognition,
comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of
a compound provided herein. In one embodiment, deﬁciency
in attention and/or cognition provided herein may represent
a subnormal functioning in one or more cognitive aspects,
such as, e.g., memory, intellect, learning ability, and/or logic
ability, in a particular subject relative to other subjects
within the same general population and/or age group. In one
embodiment, deﬁciency in attention and/or cognition pro-
vided herein may represent a reduction in a particular
sub-population’s functioning in one or more cognitive
aspects, such as, e.g., in age-related cognitive decline.
[0200] In one embodiment, the disorders comprising a
symptom of deﬁciency in attention and/or cognition pro-
vided herein that can be treated, prevented, and/or managed
with a compound or a pharmaceutical composition provided
herein, include, but are not limited to, dementia, e.g., demen-
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31, 2019
14

-continued [0123] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

m 0H

\/\/\
\
N,
O CK/NNO/CE; ’\
No a, “We \
K/‘K/VN, g/ 0H

0“ e INK/ENG 1;” Q0 / ~

OH

bee

Q

[0122] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (III-c), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or \
stereoisomer thereof, I

/ N/W /
(HI-C) .
R7\ N/W / K/
K/NW\0 \N OH

OH \N

wherein R7 is deﬁned herein elsewhere. In one embodiment, / N/ﬁ /
R7 is phenyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyndazinyl, pyrazinyl, or

naphthyl, each of which is optionally substituted with one to 0M5

three substituents, inc ependently selected from halo, cyano,

allcylamino, dialkylamino, (C 1-C3)alkyl optionally substi- OH
tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (Cl-C3)alkoxyl optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuom, In one embodiment, R7

is optionally substituted phenyl, In one embodiment, R7 is
optionally substitutec pyridyl, In one embodiment, R7 is I
optionally substituted pyrimidinyl. In one embodiment, R7 is / N /
optionally substituted pyridazinyl, In one embodiment, R7 is

optionally substitutec pyrazinyl, In one embodiment. R7 is OEt K/ \
optionally substituted naphthyl, In one embodiment, R7 is

phenyl, optionally su stituted with one to three substituents, 0H
independently selected from halo, cyano, (C1-C3)alkyl
optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C 1-C3)
alkoxyl optionally su stituted with one or more ﬂuoro (e.g,,

F, C1, CN, Me, Et, C33. OMc, OEt, OPr, or OCF3), In one I
embodiment, R7 is pyridyl, optionally substituted with one / N/W /
to three substituents, independently selected from halo,

cyano, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or more OP!

ﬂuoro, and (C1-C3)al oxyl optionally substituted with one

or more ﬂuoro (e.g,, F, Cl, CN, Me, 131, CF3, OMe, 0E1, OPr, OH
or OCF3). In one em odiment, R-I is naphthyl.
US 2019/0031685 A1

-continued
I \ N
/ N ﬁ /
CN K/NN \
O N
OH
[0124] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound

of formula (III-d), or a phannaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

R7\N /
ONO/(N1

wherein R1 and R7 are deﬁned herein elsewhere In one

embodiment, R1 is
or VIN.
HNJ

(111a)

R1

\

\N/NH

In one embodiment, R1 is

N/NH.

In one embodiment, R1 is

;i

In one embodiment, R7 is phenyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl,
pyridazinyl, pyrazinyl, or naphthyl, each of which is option-
ally substituted with one to three substituents, independently
selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-
C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and
(C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more
ﬂuoro. In one embodiment, R7 is optionally substituted
phenyl, In one embodiment, R7 is optionally substituted
pyridyl, In one embodiment, R7 is optionally substituted
pyrimidinyl, In one embodiment, R7 is optionally substituted
pyridazinyl, In one embodiment, R7 is optionally substituted
pyrazinyl, In one embodiment, R7 is optionally substituted
naphthyl. In one embodiment, R7 is phenyl, optionally
substituted with one to three substituents, independently
selected from halo, cyano, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substi-
tuted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C 1-C3)a1koxy1 optionally
substituted with one or more ﬂuoro (e.g,, F, C1, CN, Me; Et,

Jan. 31, 2019
15

CF3, OMe, OEt, or OCFS), In one embodiment, R7 is
pyridyl, optionally substituted with one to three substituents,
independently selected from halo, cyano, (C 1-C3)alky1
optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and (C 1-C3)

alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro (e,g.,
F, C], CN, Me, Et, CF,, OMe, OEt, or OCFS),

[0125] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

 

N\ NH

[0126] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (IV-a), or a pharrnaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,

(1V1)

N\/\/\0

OH

wherein Ring Ar is deﬁned herein elsewhere, In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is a benzo or thieno ring, each of which is
US 2019/0031685 A1

tia in Alzheimer’s disease, multi-infarct dementia, alcoholic
dementia, drug-related dementia, dementia associated with
intracranial tumors, dementia associated with cerebral
trauma, dementia associated with Huntington’s disease,
dementia associated with Parkinson’s disease, or AIDS-
related dementia; delirium; amnestic disorder; post-trau-
matic stress disorder; mental retardation; learning disorder,
e.g,, reading disorder, mathematics disorder, or a disorder of
written expression; attention-deﬁcit/hyperactivity disorder;
and age-related cognitive decline,

[0201] In one embodiment, without being limited by a
particular theory, the compounds provided herein may have
pro-cognitive effects, such as passive avoidance, novel
object recognition, social recognition, and attention-set
shiﬁing (e.g,, in an in vivo animal model). Further, Without
being limited by a particular theory, the compounds pro-
vided herein may improve social memory, increase the
acquisition of an environment, and reverse scopolamine-
induced deﬁcits (e,g., in an in vivo animal model), The
compounds provided herein may also reverse scopolamine-
induced deﬁcits in a passive avoidance memory test (e. g,, in
an in vivo animal model),

[0202] In one emboc ‘ment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a neurodegenerative
disease, comprising administering to a subject an effective
amount of a compoun provided herein. In one embodiment,
the neurodegenerative disease is Parkinson’s disease, In
another embodiment. the neurodegenerative disorder is
Alzheimer's disease,

[0203] In one embo iment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing mood disorder, bipo-
lar disorder, anxiety, repression, major depressive disorder,
unipolar depression, treatment resistant depression, dysthy-
mia, affective disorder, seasonal affective disorder, or obses-
sive-compulsive disorder, comprising administering to a
subject an eifective amount of a compound provided herein,
[0204] In one embo: 'ment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a mood disorder or a
mood episode, comprising administering to a subject an
effective amount of a compound provided herein. In one
embodiment, the mooc disorders or mood episodes provided
herein that can be treated, prevented, and/or managed with
a compound or a pharmaceutical composition provided
herein include, but are not limited to, major depressive
episode of the mild, moderate or severe type; a manic or
mixed mood episode; a hypomanic mood episode; a depres-
sive episode with atypical features; a depressive episode
with melancholic features; a depressive episode with cata-
tonic features; a mood episode with postpartum onset;
post-stroke depression; major depressive disorder; treatment
resistant depression; dysthymic disorder; minor depressive
disorder; premenstrual dysphoric disorder; post-psychotic
depressive disorder of schizophrenia; a major depressive
disorder superimposed on a psychotic disorder such as
delusional disorder or schizophrenia; a bipolar disorder, e.g,,
bipolar I disorder, bipolar II disorder, and cyclothymic
disorder.

[0205] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing posttraumatic stress
disorder or behavior disorder, comprising administering to a
subject an eifective amount of a compound provided herein,
[0206] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing an anxiety disorder,
including but not limited to, panic and obsessive-compulsive

 

Jan. 3], 2019

disorder, comprising administering to a subject an effective
amount of a compound provided herein. In one embodiment,
provided herein is a method of treating, preventing, and/or
managing an anxiety disorder, including but not limited to,
panic disorder, agoraphobia, speciﬁc phobia, social phobia,
obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disor-
der, acute stress disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder,
comprising administering to a subject an effective amount of
a compound provided herein,

[0207] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a neurodegenerative
disease, including but not limited to Huntington’s disease,
Alzheimer’s disease, and Parkinson’s disease, comprising
administering to a subject an eifective amount of a com-
pound provided herein,

[0208] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a neurodegenerative
disorder or neurodegenerative condition, comprising admin-
istering to a subject an effective amount of a compound
provided herein. In one embodiment, the neurodegenerative
disorder or neurodegenerative condition provided herein
that can be treated, prevented, and/or managed with a
compound or a pharmaceutical composition provided herein
represents a disorder or condition that is caused by the
dysfunction and/or death of neurons in the central nervous
system. The treatment of these disorders and conditions can
be facilitated by administration of an agent which prevents
the dysfunction or death of neurons at risk and/or enhances
the function of damaged or healthy neurons to compensate
for the loss of function caused by the dysfunction or death
of at-risk neurons, In one embodiment, the neurodegenera-
tive disorders or neurodegenerative conditions provided
herein that can be treated, prevented, and/or managed with
a compound or a pharmaceutical composition provided
herein include, but are not limited to, Parkinson’s disease;
Huntington’s disease; dementia, e.g,, Alzheimer’s disease,
multi-infarct dementia, AIDS-related dementia, and Fronto
temporal dementia; neurodegeneration associated with cere-
bral trauma; neurodegeneration associated with stroke; neu-
rodegeneration associated with cerebral infarct; hypoglyce-
mia-induced neurodegeneration; neurodegeneration
associated with neurotoxin poisoning; and multi-system
atrophy In one embodiment, the neurodegenerative disor-
ders or neurodegenerative conditions provided herein com-
prise neurodegeneration of striatal medium spiny neurons in
a subject, In one embodiment, the neurodegenerative disor-
der or neurodegenerative condition is Huntington’s disease.

[0209] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a neurologic disorder,
including but not limited to, neurodegeneration associated
with cerebral trauma, neurodegeneration associated with
stroke, neurodegeneration associated with cerebral infarct,
hypoglycemia-induced neurodegeneration, neurodegenera-
tion associated with neurotoxin poisoning, or multi-system
atrophy, comprising administering to a subject an effective
amount of a compound provided herein,

[0210] Neurological disorders may also include cereme
function disorders, including without limitation, senile
dementia, Alzheimer’s type dementia, cognition, memory
loss, amnesia/amnestic syndrome, lowering of attention,
speech disorders, autism, and hyperkinetic syndrome.
US 2019/0031685 A1

cliosis, or related disorders, including but not limited to,
schizophrenia-related disorders, schizophrenia spectrum
disorder, acute schizophrenia, chronic schizophrenia, NOS
schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, schizophreniform
disorder, paraphrenia, paranoid personality disorder. schiz-
oid personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder,
delusional disorder, psychosis, disease having a psychosis
component, psychotic disorder, brief psychotic disorder,
Alzheimer’s psychosis, Parkinson’s psychosis, shared psy-
chotic disorder, substance-induced psychotic disorder (e.g,,
cocaine, alcohol, amphetamine), psychotic disorder due to a
general medical condition, psychoaﬂective disorder, aggres-
sion, delirium, excitative psychosis, Tourette’s syndrome,
manic disorder, and organic psychosis, NOS psychosis,
comprising administering a compound provided herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or stereoisomer thereof, or
a pharmaceutical composition provided herein, to a subject
in need thereof

[0024] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing an affective disorder,
including but not limited to, major depressive episode of the
mild, moderate or severe type; a manic or mixed mood
episode; a hypomanic mood episode; a depressive episode
with atypical features; a depressive episode with melan-
cholic features; a depressive episode with catatonic features;
a mood episode with postpartum onset; post-stroke depres-
sion; major depressive disorder; treatment resistant depres-
sion; dysthymic disorder; minor depressive disorder; pre-
menstnral dysphoric disorder; post-psychotic depressive
disorc er of schizophrenia; a major depressive disorder
superimposed on a psychotic disorder such as delusional
disorc er or schizophrenia; a bipolar disorder, e,g., bipolar I
disorc er, bipolar II disorder, and cyclothymic disorder,
attention deﬁcit disorder (ADD), attention deﬁcit hyperac-
tivity disorder (ADHD), comprising administering a com-
pounc provided herein, or a pharrnaceutically acceptable salt
or stereoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
proviced herein, to a subject in need thereof.

[0025] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing addiction, substance
abuse including alcohol, amphetamine, cocaine, and/or opi-
ate acdiction, comprising administering a compound pro-
vided herein, or a pharrnaceutically acceptable salt or ste-
reoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
provi ed herein, to a subject in need thereof.

[0026] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing posttraumatic stress
disorc er, behavior disorder, neurodegenerative disease,
Alzheimer’s disease, dementia, mood disorder, anxiety,
depression, major depressive disorder, unipolar depression,
treatment resistant depression, dysthymia, affective disorder,
seasonal affective disorder. obsessive-compulsive disorder,
attention deﬁcit disorder, attention deﬁcit hyperactivity dis-
order, vertigo, pain, neuropathic pain, sensitization accom-
panying neuropathic pain, inﬂammatory pain, ﬁbromyalgia,
migraine, cognitive impairment, cognitive impairment asso-
ciated with schizophrenia, cognitive deﬁcit in Alzheimer’s
disease, cognitive deﬁcit in Parkinson’s disease, movement
disorder, restless leg syndrome, multiple sclerosis, sleep
disorder, substance abuse or dependency, addiction, eating
disorder, or autism, comprising administering a compound
provided herein, or a pharrnaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition pro-
vided herein, to a subject in need thereof

 

Jan. 3], 2019

[0027] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
treating, preventing, and/or managing a disorder provided
herein elsewhere (e.g., a CNS disorder or a neurological
disorder), in a subject, such as a mammal, e,g., human,
rodent (e,g., mice and rats), cat, dog, and non-human pri-
mate, among others, In one embodiment, provided herein is
a method of treating, preventing, and/or ameliorating one or
more symptoms associated with a disorder provided herein
elsewhere (e.g., a CNS disorder or a neurological disorder),
in a subject, such as a mammal, e.g,, human, rodent (e.g.,
mice and rats), cat, dog, and non-human primate, among
others, In one embodiment, the method provided herein
comprises contacting a compound provided herein with a
G-protein coupled receptor In one embodiment, the method
comprises contacting a compound provided herein with a D2
receptor.

[0028] In one embodiment, provided herein is a method of
modulating D2 receptor activity, In one embodiment, the
method comprises contacting a compound provided herein
with a D2 receptor, which incrwses the D2 receptor activity.
In one embodiment, the method comprises contacting a
compound provided herein with a D2 receptor, which
decreases the D2 receptor activity,

[0029] In another embodiment, provided herein is a
method of modulating D2 receptor/B-arrestin interaction, In
one embodiment, the method comprises contacting a com-
pound provided herein with a D2 receptor, which modulates
D2 receptor/B-arrestin interaction. In one embodiment, the
method comprises contacting a compound provided herein
with a D2 receptor, which antagonizes D2 receptor/|5-arres-
tin activity, In one embodiment, the method comprises
contacting a compound provided herein with a D2 receptor,
which agonizes D2 receptor/[i-arrestin activity. In one
embodiment, the method comprises contacting a compound
provided herein with a D2 receptor, which agonizes the D2
receptor and increases B-arrestin recnritment, In one
embodiment. the method comprises contacting a compound
provided herein with a D2 receptor, which anmgonizes the
D2 receptor and decreases I-arrestin recruitment,

[0030] In another embodiment, provided herein is a
method of modulating other cellular functions. In one
embodiment, the method comprises contacting a compound
provided herein with a D2 receptor, which agonizes the D2
receptor and decreases cAMP production through a G,-
mediated mechanism. In one embodiment, the method com-
prises contacting a compound provided herein with a D2
receptor, which antagonizes the D2 receptor and prevents
the D2-mediated decrease in cAMP production,

[0031] In one embodiment, the method comprises contact-
ing a compound provided herein with a D2 receptor
expressed in the central nervous system. In one embodiment,
the method comprises contacting a cell with a compound
provided herein, In an exemplary embodiment, the cell is a
brain cell, such as, eigi, a MSN cell, a neuronal cell, or a glial
cell.

IV. DETAILED DESCRIPTION

[0032] Unless deﬁned otherwise, all technical and scien-
tiﬁc terms used herein have the same meaning as those
commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art, All
publications and patents referred to herein are incorporated
by reference herein in their entireties.
US 2019/0031685 A1

HETEROARYL COMPOUNDS AND
METHODS OF USE THEREOF

I. FIELD

[0001] Provided herein are heteroaryl compounds useful
for treating various disorders or diseases, such as central
nervous system (CNS) disorders or neurological disorders
Also provided herein are compositions comprising the com-
pounds, and methods of use thereof.

II. BACKGROUND

[0002] The basal ganglia connects the cerebral cortex to
brain systems that generate behavior. The striatum receives
sensory input from the glutamatergic neurons of the neo-
cortex. More than 95% of the neurons of the striatum are the
GABAergic medium spiny neurons which are involved in a
number of psychomotor functions. The activity of these
neurons is modulated by dopamine. Dopamine exerts its
functions on cellular activity through G-protein coupled
receptors (e.g., D1, D2, D3, D4, and D5 receptors) and
aberrant dopamine signaling has been implicated in a num-
ber of diseases such as schizophrenia, psychoses, Parkin-
son’s disease, movement disorders, and other neuronal dis-
orders such as attention deﬁcit hyperactivity disorder,
depression, and addiction.

[0003] Parkinson’s disease is characterized by a loss of
dopaminergic neurons in the subsmntia nigra pars compacm.
Treatments for Parkinson’s disease have focused on the
replacement therapies to counteract this loss of dopamine
input to the striatum either by L-dopa which is a dopamine
precursor or by the administration of dopamine agonists
such as pramipexole or ropiniroler Although these treat-
ments are eﬁective, the need for improved medications
exists. The direct dopamine agonists are less effective than
L-dopa, which despite being the most etfective medication
has a short half-life, and the resulting ﬂuctuation in plasma
concentrations is associated with the onset of dyskinesias.
Dopamine agonists with improved eﬂicacy and longer half-
lives that produce a more constant plasma exposure are
predicted to be improved medications for Parkinson’s dis-
ease

[0004] In contrast, schizophrenia is associated with an
increase in striatal dopamine tone, particularly in the indirect
pathway. Accordingly, the clinical eﬁicacy of current antip-
sychotics correlates with their efﬁcacy as D2 antagonists.
However, these agents are known to produce extrapyramidal
and other motoric adverse etfects (Parkinsonism, dystonia,
akathisia, tardive dyskinesia) following acute and chronic
dosing. One pharmacological feature of many anti-psychotic
drugs is that they typically block the D2/B-arrestin/Akt-GSK
pathway which has long been implicated in schizophrenia
while having different effects at the c-AMP pathway.

[0005] Dopamine partial agonists have been described as
the “third generation” antipsychoticsr These differentiate
from the ﬁrst and second generations in that their pharma-
cological etfects are dependent on dopamine tone and the
expression levels and receptor reserve. For instance, aripip-
razole has been reported to be a partial agonist at the
presynaptic D2 autoreceptors and in conditions of low
dopamine tone. In fact, partial agonists will have a greater
efﬁcacy at these receptors due to their high receptor reserve.
However, under conditions of high dopamine, as in schizo-
phrenia, low eﬁicacy partial agonists, such as aripiprazole,

Jan. 3], 2019

are effective antipsychotics with reduced motoric side
eﬁects due to an incomplete blockade of dopamine signaling
in the striattun.

[0006] CNS disorders affect a wide range of the popula-
tion with ditTering severity. For example, schizophrenia is a
psychopathological disorder of unknown origin, which usu-
ally appears for the ﬁrst time in early adulthood and is
marked by characteristics, such as, psychotic symptoms,
phasic progression and development, and deterioration in
social behavior and professional capability. Characteristic
psychotic symptoms include disorders of thought content
(e.g., multiple, fragmentary, incoherent, implausible or sim-
ply delusional contents, or ideas of persecution) and of
mentality (e.g., loss of association, ﬂight of imagination,
incoherence, or incomprehensibility), as well as disorders of
perceptibility (e.g., hallucinations), emotions (e.g., superﬁ-
cial or inadequate emotions), self-perceptions, intentions,
impulses, and inter-human relationships, and psychomotoric
disorders (e.g., catatonia). Other symptoms are also associ-
ated with this disorder. See, e.g., Diagnostic and Statistical
Manual of Mental Disorders, 4’” Ed, American Psychiatric
Association (1997) (DSM-IVTM).

[0007] Schizophrenia can be classiﬁed into various sub-
groups. For example, the paranoid type is characterized by
delusions and hallucinations and absence of thought disor-
der, disorganized behavior, and aﬁective ﬂattening. The
disorganized type, also named hebephrenic schizophrenia, is
characterized by the presence of both thought disorder and
affective ﬂattening. The catatonic type is characterized by
prominent psychomotor disturbances, including symptoms
of catatonic stupor and waxy ﬂexibility. In the undifferen-
tiated type, psychotic symptoms are present but the criteria
for paranoid, disorganized, or catatonic types have not been
met.

[0008] The symptoms of schizophrenia normally manifest
themselves in three broad categories, i.e., positive, negative
and cognitive symptoms. Positive symptoms are those that
represent an excess of normal experiences, such as halluci-
nations, disorganized speech, and delusions. Negative symp-
toms are those where the patient suiTers from a lack of
normal experiences, such as anhedonia, lack of motivation,
inability to experience pleasure, and lack of social interac-
tion. The cognitive symptoms relate to cognitive impairment
in schizophrenics, such as lack of sustained attention,
impairment ofmemory, and deﬁcits in decision making. The
current anti-psychotics are somewhat elTective in treating
the positive symptoms but are less effective in treating the
negative or cognitive symptoms. For instance, the current
typical or atypical anti-psychotics do not address cognitive
or negative symptoms of schizophrenia, and only treat the
positive symptoms in approximately 40% of patients.

[0009] Cognitive impairments include a decline in cogni-
tive functions or cognitive domains, e.g., working memory,
attention and vigilance, verbal learning and memory, visual
learning and memory, reasoning and problem solving, e.g.,
executive function, speed of processing and/or social cog-
nition. In particular, cognitive impairment may indicate
deﬁcits in attention, disorganized thinking, slow thinking,
diﬁiculty in understanding, poor concentration, impairment
of problem solving, poor memory, diﬁiculties in expressing
thoughts, diﬂiculties in integrating thoughts, feelings and
behavior, or diﬁiculties in extinction of irrelevant thoughts.

[0010] These and other CNS or neurological disorders,
such as, Parkinson’s disease, movement disorders, aifective
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 31,2019
17

[0129] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to: -continued

 

[0130] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
of formula (IV-c), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
stereoisomer thereof,
US 2019/0031685 A1 Jan. 3], 2019
16

optionally substituted with one to three substituents, inde- -continued
pendently selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialky-
lamino, (Cl-C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or

C1
more ﬂuoro, and (C 1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with
one or more ﬂuoroi In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an /
optionally substituted benzo ring. In one embodiment, Ring N \ , or
\/\/\0

Ar is an optionally substituted thieno ring In one embodi- N
ment, Ring Ar is a benzo ring, optionally substituted with
one to three substituents, independently selected from halo,
cyano, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one or more

ﬂuoro, and (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one /
or more ﬂuoro (e.g,, F, Cl, CN, Me, Et, CF3, OMe, OEt, or )
OCFS). In one embodiment, Ring Ar is a thieno ring. N\/\/\0 \N

CF3

[0127] Speciﬁc examples include, but are not limited to:

OH

OH

N , [0128] In one embodiment, provided herein is a compound
\/\/\0 \N of formula (IV-b), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or

stereoisomer thereof,
OH

MeO /
N\/\/\ \ V (Nb)
0 N

OH

c1 N
11
N\/\/\ \ '
o N

OH wherein Ring Ar is deﬁned herein elsewhere, In one embodi-
ment, Ring Ar is a pyrazolo, thieno, pyrimido, pyrazino,

NC
/ thiazolo, imidazolo, furano. or pyridazino ring, each of
N t which is optionally substituted with one to three substitu-
\/\/\O \N ents, independently selected from halo, cyano, alkylamino,

dialkylamino, (C1-C3)alkyl optionally substituted with one
or more ﬂuoro, (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with

F / one or more ﬂuoro, optionally substituted phenyl, and
optionally substituted pyridyli In one embodiment, Ring Ar
N\/\/\ \ ’ is an optionally substituted pyrazolo ring. In one embodi-

0

N ment, RingAr is a pyrazolo ring, optionally substituted with
0H optionally substituted phenyl or optionally substituted
pyridyl, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally

CF
3 / substituted thieno ring, In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an
N , optionally substituted pyrimido ring, In one embodiment,
\/\/\O \N Ring Ar is an optionally substituted pyrazino ring. In one

embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally substituted thiazolo
ring. In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an optionally substi-

S / tuted imidazolo ring. In one embodiment, Ring Ar is an
\ I , optionally substituted ﬁimno ring, In one embodiment, Ring
N\/\/\O \ Ar is an optionally substituted pyridazino ring, In one

N embodiment, the optional substituents include, but are not
OH limited to, halo, cyano, alkylamino, dialkylamino, (C1-C3)

/ alkyl optionally substituted with one or more ﬂuoro, and

/ I (C1-C3)alkoxyl optionally substituted with one or more

s N\/\/\ \ . ﬂuoro (e.g,, Me, Et, NHMe, or NMeZ), In other embodi-
O

N ments, the optional substituents include, but are not limited
to, optionally substituted phenyl, and optionally substituted
pyridyl (eg, phenyl, chlorophenyl, ﬂuorophenyl, methoxy-
phenyl, or pyridyl).

OH

OH

OH
(19) United States
(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2019/0031685 A1

US 20190031685A1

 

Jones et a]. (43) Pub. Date: Jan. 31, 2019
(54) HETEROARYL COMPOUNDS AND A61K 31/43 75 (2006.01)
METHODS OF USE THEREOF C07D 495/04 (2006.01)
A61K 31/519 (2006.01)
(71) Applicant: SUNOVION PHARMACEUTICALS A6IK 31/4709 (2006101)
INC., Marlborough, MA (US) C07D 231/56 (2006101)
A61K 31/496 (2006.01)
(72) Inventors: Philip G. Jones, Danvers, MA (US); €070 215/26 (2006.01)
Robert Lew, Marlborough, MA (US); C07D 471/04 (2006.01)
Kerry L. Sp'ean Concord, MA (US); A61K 45/06 (2006.01)
nghong X19, Southborough; MA (US) A61K 31/551 (2006.01)
‘ C07D 401/14 (2006101)
(73) Asmgnee: SUNOVION PHARNIACEUTICALS €071) 519/00 (2006101)
INC- (52) us. Cl.
_ CPC 11111111 C07D 513/04 (2013.01); A61K 31/4985
(21) APP1~ N°~ 15/947343 (201301); (0711 519/00 (2013.01); A61K
4. 4 31/437 (2013,01); C07D 401/12 (2013.01);
(22) ”Ed AP“ 6’ 2°18 A61K 31/444 (2013.01); A61K 31/43 75
. . (2013101); C07D 495/04 (2013101); A61K
Re'md U'S' Appl‘mw“ ”a” 31/519 (2013101); A61K 31/4709 (2013101);
(62) Division ofapplication No 14/399,334, ﬁled on Nov C07D 231/56 (2013101); A61K 31/496
6, 2014, now Pat. No. 9,951,088, ﬁled as application (2013.01); C07D 215/26 (2013.01); C07D
No. PCT/'USl3/40238 on May 9, 2013, 471/04 (2013.01); A61K 45/06 (2013.01);
1 1 1 1 . A61K31/551 (2013.01); C07D 401/14
(60) grzigiizonal application No. 61/644,947. ﬁled on May (201101); €071) 401/04 (201301)
. _ . . (57) ABSTRACT
Publication Class1ﬁcation Provided herein are heteroaryl compounds, methods of their
(51) Int. C 1. synthesis, pharmaceutical compositions comprising the
C07D 513/04 (2006.01) compounds, and methods of their use. In one embodiment,
A61K 31/4985 (200601) the compounds provided herein are useful for the treatment.
C07D 401/04 (2006.01) prevention, and/or management ofvarious disorders, such as
A61K 31/43 7 (2006101) CNS disorders and neurological disorders, including but not
C07D 401/12 (2006101) limited to, e.g., psychosis, schizophrenia, depression, move-
A61K 31/444 (2006101) ment disorders, and Parkinson’s disease.
