Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 8 of 12 US 2019/0030119 Al

  

 

0.4 ** 1-5
9 g .9 g 1.25
§: 0.2 §\ 0.75
(/2 x V) g
o 24 0.1 o g 0.25
0 0
CS — + C8 ~ +
Fig. 11A Fig-11B
_ 8
<2: 1.5 g
o: a:
E E 6
E 1 -§
3 g? 4
a $1
; m
g 0‘5 S 2
__I O
z ><
o O 0
CS cs . + . +
NLRX? +/+ +l+ -/- -/-

 

Fig. 13

~64“
8%
bv
<
mm
C
0:
(“.1
‘1:
M5
(DJ

 

03°-

Convol Vector + — + -
NLRX1 Vector - + . +

Fig. 14
Patent Application Publication

CXCL13
(pg/ mg of lung protein)

Surface Area,

Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 9 of 12

Left Lung (cmz)
En‘

 

+l+ .1-
NLRX1+/+ -/- -/- +/+ -/- -/-

Fig. 15

(D
O

C)
O

43
O

N
O

 

0 .
CS — — - + + +

MAVS +l+ +l+ -/- +l+ +l+ —l—
NLRX1+I+ -/~ -/~ +I+ -/— ~/»

Fig. 16

US 2019/0030119 Al
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
36

icontinued
cccagaccca ctggagccac cgtcacttcc tgctgagagg ccagggcccc ccacacctgc 540
tgcggcccac agcatcccct acaacagctg cagagagaag gagccaagtt accccatgcc 600
tgtccaggag acccaggcgc cagagtcccc aggagagaat tcagagcaag ccctgcagac 650
gctcagcccc agagccatcc caaggaatcc agatggtggc cccctggagt cctcctctga 720
cctggcagcc ctcagccctc tgacctccag nggcatcag gagcaggaca cagaactggg 780
cagtacccac acagcaggtg Cgacctccag cctcacacca tcccgtgggc ctgtgtctcc 340
atctgtctcc :cccagcccc tggcccgttc cacccccagg gcaagccgct tgcctggacc 900
cacagggtca gttgtatcta ctggcacctc cttctcctcc tcatcccctg gcttggcctc 960

tgcaggggct gcagagggta aacagggtgc agagagtgac caggccgagc ctatcatctg 1020
ctccagtggg gcagaggcac ctgccaactc tctgccctcc aaagtgccta ccaccttgat 1000
gcctgtgaac acagtggccc tgaaagtgcc tgccaaccca gcatctgtca gcacagtgcc 1140
ctccaagttg ccaactagct Caaagccccc tggtgcagtg Ccttctaatg cgctcaccaa 1200
tccagcacca tccaaattgc Ccatcaactc aacccgtgct ggcatggtgc catccaaagt 1250
gcctactagc atggtgctca ccaaggtgtc tgccagcaca gtccccactg acgggagcag 1320
cagaaatgag gagaccccag cagctccaac acccgccggc gccactggag gcagctcagc 1300
ctggctagac agcagctctg agaatagggg ccttgggtcg gagctgagta agcctggcgt 1440
gctggcatcc caggtagaca gcccgttctc gggctgcttc gaggatcttg ccatcagtgc 1500
cagcacctcc ttgggcatgg ggccctgcca tggcccagag gagaatgagt ataagtccga 1560
gggcaccttt gggatccacg tggctgagaa Ccccagcatc Cagctcctgg agggcaaccc 1620
tgggccacct gcggacccgg atggcggccc caggccacaa gccgaccgga agttccagga 1680
gagggaggtg ccatgccaca ggccctcacc tggggctctg tggctccagg tggctgtgac 1740
aggggtgctg gtagtcacac tcctggtggt gctgtaccgg cggcgtctgc actagtgaag 1800
ccctgggctc ttcccaccac ccatctgttc cgttcctgca gtacacctgg cccctctccg 1850
aagccccttg tccctttctt ggggattgtg gaggctgggt cagaggggag ttaagggact 1920
gcaggcctgg cagcaggaca tgccttggct gaaccaagtc Ctgagagcag catctctgtc 1980
cccacggtgc cttgtgtggg tccccgtcct tggctttctg ggtcctgggc tgcccccagt 2040
gctccagacc ttccccactg gcaatccagg ttatcatcca tgtcctccag aggagcttcc 2100
tcctccaggc ctcagccctg ttggcccagg tggagcagga gggaccactg gaacatgtgg 2100
tgcttgggaa tgcctctcct gttgcattgg tccctgaagg cctcagggca ggtatgtggt 2220
gtgtgggcga ctccacaaga cctgcctccc atcctggcag cccagcctga gaccgttgca 2280
ttgaggcagg caggagcggc agggtggctg ctctccagga gcccaactgc cttgagttcc 2340
tgccccactg ggccccctcc cctgctgggc aatcctggga aggtctggag gttcctgtgg 2400
acctcaggga agccaggggc agctgtcagg Cctgaggaag acctgtggag ctcctctcca 2450
gcctcctctt tccctcccct ctggtctcca ttctcttcag ctccctacat gggctgggga 2520
ggagacacct ggtgggcaga gctcaggcag aggtttggat ttcagctccc tcacttccgg 2580
ggctgtgtgg ctttggcaga tgtcagactt ctggtcttgc ttctccacgt ggacagtgag 2540
tatctggctc attcttcact gggttcttct gagattgaac Ctacaggtgt ttgccaagtg 2700

cctggcccag agcaagtggc cactgcttct cccatctctc tcctgcccaa cctggtagag 2750
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
37

5 cont inued

ctgagggcat gagaggcaga gtgcacagtg gtcaagggtg cagctctgca gcacaggcag 2920
cctaggcctg cgtcccaacc tgcctctcac cagctctgtg accttgggca agggatttat 2990
ctgtctgtcc cttagttttc tcacctgtaa aaggaggata agtatatata tatatttccc 2940
agtgttgtga agattaaagg agtttatcga tgtaggtctt aggatgagtc ctggcattta 3000
ccaagggttg gatatatgtt attatcacta ttaagtgttg agggtccagg catgctgggc 3050
aacagggacc ccatctctac aaaaaagttt aaaaaattag Ccaggcgtgg tggtgcacct 3120
gtcgtcttag ctacttggga ggctgaggtg ggaggatcac ttgagcccag aagcttgaag 3190
ctgcagtgag ctaggatcgt gccactgcac tccaacctgg gtgagagagc gagaccctgt 3240
ctcaagaaaa agaaaaatgc agagaaacag gagtcttggc tactccttta gaggcagact 3300
cagaccctcc tgcctcacag ctttatcttt gtatttgccc attactttat cttgtgcctt 3360
gagaaattgc tggggagaga ggtatgtcca ctgggcagct gtacaggatg gaggatatag 3420
ggcgtttcca ctcccagcag Ccaggttccc tcaccccaag thacccact gttggggaga 3480
ttatctacaa taacaccaga aacacattgg ggtggattgg gggtatcctt atgggttctt 3540
ttcagggaac cattgctgga caaggcacag gagccacctc catttctgag ctctgcaagg 3600
gacaagaact agagccatca ggggctgggc tcactgtggc cccaccccaa gccgtcagcc 3660
tccagggatc tacaccctgc cttggctgct acagcttttt cactccactg ccctagggga 3720
gttcagcaac ctaatgatct ctatctctga acatctcttc atcccatgct ccaagtccag 3790
caacctgcac cctggaacca ggagtggacc ctacccgagc tgtctgtatt aatccccatc 3940
ccccaccacc aatcttaaaa agccctctgt Ccccctaccc taaaccccag ttaggtaccc 3900
atgctgggca ggtcagttaa caatttatgc acaggtacta gttttattgt attaccgttc 3960
cagggtagct ttgaaaaaag tatctcaaaa aggcaacatg ggccgagcgc agtggctcac 4020
gcctgtaatc ccagcacttt gggaggccaa ggtgggcaga tcgcctgagg tctggagttc 4090
aagaccagcc tggccaacag ggtgaaaccc cgtctctaca aaaataagaa aattagccag 4140
gtgtagtggc agacgtctgt aatcccagct attcaggagg Ctgaggcacg agaattccat 4200
gaacccagga tgcggaggtt gcagtgagcc gagattgtgc Cactgcgctc cagcctgggc 4250
gacagagtgg tattctgttt caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaggca gtatgtagcc ccgaagactg 4320
ttgcccaagt ggtagaatgt tagcacacta Ccagcctagg taaaaaatac aaaaagtaac 4390
tgggcatggc ggcgcccatc tatagtccca gctacatggg aggctgaggt gggaagataa 4440
gtcacttgag cccgccagga ggcggaggtt gtagtgagct gagatcgcac cactgcactc 4500
cagcctgggt gaccgagtga tactctgtct caaagaaaaa aaattataat tttagcacag 4560
taaccagcca tgatgggaga taccctgggt aaggcatgta gaaagggttg agggaccttc 4620
ccagtcccct agccccgcct cccatcctcc catctttttc ttttttcttt tttttagaga 4690
atcacccagc ctggagcgaa gtggtgcaat cataactcac tgtatcctta aactcccggg 4740
cttaagcgat cctcctgcct cagccttctg agtaactagg acttcaggta cctgtcacca 4900
tgcctggcta attaaatttt tttttctttt ttttttttga gatggagtct tgctctgtca 4950
cccaggctgg agtgcagtgg cgcgatctca gctcactgcg acctccacct cctgggttca 4920
ggccattctc ccgcctcagc thcagagta gctgggacta Caggcgcctg ccaccacgcc 4990

tggctaattt Etttgcactt ttagtagaga cggggtttca ctgtgttagc caggatggtc 5040
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 12 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

 

 

      
   
  

USER
iNFERFACE

 
    
 

STORAGE MODULE
COMPARISON
MODULE
OUTPUT MODULE

DETERMINATION

MODULE

 

 

    
 

 

DATABASE

Fig. 19
US 2019/0030119 A1

METHODS FOR DECREASING CHORD
LENGTH

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED
APPLICATIONS

[0001] This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C,
§ 120 of co-pending US. application Ser No. 15/065,230
ﬁled Mar. 9, 2016, which claims beneﬁt under 35 U.S.C, §
119(e) of US. Provisional Application No. 62/130,811 ﬁled
Mar. 10, 2015, the contents of which are incorporated herein
by reference in their entirety,

GOVERNMENT SUPPORT

[0002] This invention was made with federal funding
under Grant Nosr R56HL119511, HL-079328, and P01
HL114501 awarded by the National Institutes of Health, The
US, government has certain rights in the invention.

SEQUENCE LISTING

[0003] The instant application contains a Sequence Listing
which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format

and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety, Said
ASCII copy, created on Feb, 4, 2016, is named 058040-
084261-US Stht and is 34,231 bytes in size.

TECHNICAL FIELD

[0004] The technology described herein relates to the
diagnosis. prognosis, and treatment of lung disease, eg,
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung
damage.

BACKGROUND

[0005] Cigarette smoke causes a broad spectrum of dis-
eases characterized by inﬂammation and tissue remodeling,
including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD),
In many of these disorders the inﬂammation is believed to
drive disease pathogenesis. This can be seen in COPD, the
fourth leading cause of death in the world, where pulmonary
inﬂanunation is believed to be causally related to the emphy-
sema and other pathologic alterations in the lungs from these
patients.

[0006] Cigarette smoke activates caspase 1 and IL—18,
thereby regulating the inﬂammasome, However, the mecha-
nism(s) that controls lung inﬂammasome activation at base-
line and the alterations that cigarette smoke induces to
activate the inﬂammasome have not been deﬁned.

SUMMARY

[0007] MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral signaling mol-
ecule) regulates inﬂammatory and remodeling responses in
viral infections and is inhibited in the healthy, non-infected
lungr It is demonstrated herein that cigarette smoke causes
damage to lung tissue, at least in part, by inhibiting NLRXl,
which inhibits MAVS in healthy tissue. Thus, cigarette
smoke causes an increase in the activity of MAVS, resulting
in inﬂammation and pathological tissue remodeling. Resto-
ration of NLRXl in lung exposed to cigarette smoke
reserved the pathological effects of cigarette smoke Accord-
ingly, provided herein are methods of diagnosing, prognos-
ing, and treating COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette
smoke-induced lung damage relating to the discovery that
NLRXl is suppressed in diseased tissues.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0008] In one aspect, described herein is a method of
treating COPD in a subject in need thereof, the method
comprising administering an inhibitor of MAVS. In one
aspect, described herein is a method of treating cigarette
smoke-induced lung damage in a subject in need thereof, the
method comprising administering an inhibitor of MAVS. In
some embodiments, the cigarette smoke-induced lung dam-
age is selected from the group consisting of: inﬂammation;
alveolar destruction; protease induction; structural cell
apoptosis; and inﬂammasome activation. In one aspect,
described herein is a method of treating emphysema in a
subject in need thereof, the method comprising administer-
ing an inhibitor of MAVSI In some embodiments, the
emphysema is cigarette smoke induced emphysema.

[0009] In some embodiments, the inhibitor of MAVS is an
agonist of NLRXl. In some embodiments, the inhibitor of
MAVS is a modulator of NLRXl-dependent pathways. In
some embodiments, the agonist of NLRX] is a nucleic acid
encoding NLRXl or or an NLRXl polypeptide.

[0010] In one aspect, described herein is a method of
treating COPD in a subject in need thereof, the method
comprising administering an inhibitor of MAVS.

[0011] In one aspect, described herein is a method of
treating cigarette smoke-induced lung damage in a subject in
need thereof, the method comprising administering an ago-
nist of NLRXI. In some embodiments, the cigarette smoke-
induced lung damage is selected from the group consisting
of: inﬂammation; alveolar destruction; protease induction;
structural cell apoptosis; and inﬂanunasome activation. In
one aspect, described herein is a method of treating emphy-
sema in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising
administering an agonist of NLRXl. In some embodiments,
the emphysema is cigarette smoke induced emphysema,

[0012] In some embodiments, the subject is a subject
determined to have a decreased level of NLRXl expression.

[0013] In one aspect, described herein is an assay com-
prising: measuring the level of NLRXl in a test sample
obtained from a subject; wherein an decrease in the expres-
sion level relative to a reference level indicates the subject
has a higher risk of having or developing COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage, In one aspect,
described herein is a method of identifying a subject in need
of treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-in-
duced lung damage, the method comprising: measuring the
level of NLRXl in a test sample obtained from a subject;
and identifying the subject as being in need of treatment for
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage
when the expression level of NLRXl is decreased relative to
a reference level. In one aspect, described herein is a method
of determining if a subject is at risk for COPD, emphysema,
and/or cigarette-induced lung damage, the method compris-
ing: measuring the level of NLRXl in a test sample obtained
from a subject; comparing the level of NLRXI in the sample
to a reference level of NLRXl; determining that the subject
is at risk for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced
lung damage when the level of NLRXl is decreased relative
to a reference level; and determining that the subject is not
at risk for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung
damage when the level of NLRXl is not decreased relative
to a reference level, In one aspect, described herein is a
method of determining the efﬁcacy of a treatment for COPD,
emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage, the
method comprising: (a) measuring the level of NLRXI in a
test sample obtained from a subject before administration of
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 11 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

 

Determination module measures the level and/or
activity of NLRXl in a sample obtained from a
subject

 

Input data

 

Slore data information from determination module on storage module. stored data

 

 

 

   
   
     
  
   
 

  

Comparison module l)opiionally determines the level of NLRXl in a sample obtained from a
subject from values provided by the storage module and/or input by a user and 2) compares the
level of NLRXl in a sample obtained from a subject, with the mean value of NLRXl a population of
healthy subjects (previously stored or additional input data}

     

a level in the sample obtained fmm a
subject les, by a statistically signiﬁcant
amount. than the mean value from a
. pulation of healthy subjects?

 
     

NO—l

Display module
$ YES indicates subject
from which the
sample was
obtained does not
have or is not likely
to develop, etg,

 

Display module displays signal that the subject the sample was obtained from has
or is likely to develop, e.g., emphysema or COPD (e.g., a positive test result)

 

 

 

 

 

i emphysema or
COPD.
(evg. a negative test
‘ result)

Optionally Transmit display data to patient / physician

Fig. 18
US 2019/0030119 A1

relevance of these studies was also conﬁrmed in studies that
demonstrated that the expression of NLRXI is decreased in
lungs from patients with COPD where this suppression
correlates with disease severity, abnormal pulmonary func-
tion, decreased quality of life and poor prognosis.

[0284] CS is an important stimulator of inﬂammation and
remodeling in a variety of diseases and disorders (3, 24-26).
It also exaggerates antiviral responses in patients with
COPD and otherwise healthy smokers (11, 27, 28). The
ability of CS and virus/viral PAMPs to synergize in the
generation of inﬂammation and tissue remodeling is medi-
ated by a MAVS-dependent mechanism (5). The present
studies add to these observations by demonstrating that
MAVS also plays a crucial role in the inﬂammation and
remodeling induced by CS alone, Importantly they also
revise our understanding of the mechanism that CS uses to
engender tissue alterations. Speciﬁcally, they demonstrate
that optimal CS-induced responses are only seen when CS
abrogates the inhibitory eifects of NLRXI.

[0285] NLRXl is a member of the Nod-like receptor
family of intracellular sensors of microbial- and danger-
associated molecular pattems (15, 29). In early studies it was
identiﬁed to be a negative regulator of MAVS, a key adapter
molecule of M-RLH antiviral signaling(15). It is now known
to be a negative modulator of LPS-induced TRAF6-NK-KB
signaling and has been shown to regulate autophagy(l4, 16,
30), bind to UQCRC2 in mitochondrial respiratory chain
complex III and regulate mitochondrial production of reac-
tive oxidant species (ROS)(31). This elfector repetiore might
have signiﬁcant implications for the methods described
herein because defects in autophagy/mitophagy lead to the
accumulation of damaged, ROS producing, mitochondria
which induce inﬂammasome activation(32). In accord with
this concept, a recent publication demonstrated that MAVS
also plays a role as a critical adaptor molecule in inﬂam-
masome activation (33). It is contemplated herein that
NLRXl-inhibition of—MAVS-dependent inﬂammasome
activation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of
COPD,

[0286] It is demonstrated herein that NLRXI is suppressed
in patients with COPD where the degree of suppression
correlates with disease severity. It is also demonstrated that
the effects of CS are mediated by an NLRXl-inhibited and
MAVS-dependent pathway and that interventions that abro-
gate the CS-induced decrease in NLRXl also abrogate
CS-induced emphysema. These studies demonstrate that the
suppression of NLRXl is a critical event in CS—induced
responses. It is also contemplated herein that the degree of
NLRXl suppression can be an important index of COPD
severity and that polymorphisms or other alterations that
decrease NLRXl function can contribute to disease suscep-
tibility. Importantly, the demonstration that NLRXl supple-
mentation abrogates CS—induced alveolar destruction also
indicates that interventions that prevent the inhibition of
NLRXl, augment the effects of NLRXl, abrogate MAVS
function or restore NLRXl suppression can be therapeuti-
cally useful in this disorder.

METHODS

[0287] Clinical Data.

[0288] Three cohorts were used in these studies. In the
Yale cohort, fresh frozen lung tissues from 7 controls and 36
patients with COPD were obtained from the Lung Tissue
Research Consortium (LTRC), a nationwide resource pro-

Jan. 31, 2019

gram from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute
(N HLBI) that provides human lung tissues with highly
qualiﬁed and extensive phenotype data. This study was
approved by the Yale University Human Investigation Com-
mittee and LTRC (#11-99-0005). For the Pittsburgh cohort,
lung tissues were obtained as previously described(34)r
[0289] Mouse Models.

[0290] All in vivo experiments in animals were approved
by the Yale Animal Care and Use Committee (YACUC). The
generation and basic characterization of MAVS null mutant
and NLRXl null mutant mice have been described previ-
ously(l4, 35). The CS-induced murine emphysema model
that was employed has been described previously(6, 18),
[0291] Laboratory Assessments

[0292] Separation of the cytosol- and mitochondria-en-
riched fractions was undertaken using Qproteome mitochon-
drial isolation kit (Qiagen) as per the manufacturer’s instruc-
tions. For the evaluation of lung morphometry, the leﬁ lung
was inﬂated with 05% low temperature-melting agarose in
10% buffered formalin ﬁxative at a constant pressure of 25
cm as described previously (5, 6). Alveolar size was esti-
mated by the measurement of mean chord length of the air
space as described previously (5, 6).

[0293] Statistical Analysis.

[0294] Comparisons of the levels of NLRXI in patients
with different stages of COPD were undertaken with Stu-
dent’s t-test, nonparametric Kruskal-Wallis and Mann-Whit-
ney U tests as appropriate. To evaluate the associations
between the levels of NLRXI expression and clinical vari-
ables, nonparametric Pearson correlation analysis was
undertaken. For the analyses of the murine data, groups were
compared with Student’s t test or with nonparametric Mann-
Whitney U test as appropriate Statistical signiﬁcance was
deﬁned at a level of p<0.05. All analyses were completed
with SPSSTM software, version 19.0.

REFERENCES

[0295] l.Adair-Kirk, T. L., Atkinson, J. J., and Senior, R.
M. 2008. Smoke particulates stress lung cells. Nat Med
14:1024-1025.

[0296] 2. Yanbaeva, D. G., Dentener, M. A., Creutzberg,
E. C., Wesseling. G., and Wouters, E. F. 2007. Systemic
eﬂects of smoking. Chest 131:1557-1566.

[0297] 3. Bhalla, D. K., Hirata, F., Rishi, A. K., and
Gairola, C. G. 2009. Cigarette smoke, inﬂammation, and
lung injury: a mechanistic perspective. J Toxicol Envimrt
Health B Crit Rev 12:45-64.

[0298] 4. Rabe, K. F., Hurd, S., Anzueto, A., Barnes, P. J.,
Buist, S. A., Calverley, P., Fukuchi, Y, Jenkins, C.,
Rodriguez-Roisin, R., van Weel, C., et al. 2007. Global
strategy for the diagnosis, management, and prevention of
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: GOLD executive
summary. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 176:532-555.

[0299] 5. Kang, M. J., Lee, C. G., Lee, J. Y., Dela Cruz, C.
S., Chen, Z, J., Enelow, R., and Elias, J. A. 2008 Cigarette
smoke selectively enhances viral PAMP- and virus-in-
duced pulmonary innate inunune and remodeling
responses in mice. J Clin Invest 118:2771-2784.

[0300] 6. Kang, M. J., Homer, R. J., Gallo, A., Lee, C. G.,
Crothers, K. A., Cho, S, J., Rochester, C,, Cain, Hr,
Chupp, G., Yoon, H. J,, et al. 2007, IL~18 is induced and
IL-18 receptor alpha plays a critical role in the pathogen-
esis of cigarette smoke-induced pulmonary emphysema
and inﬂarmnation. JImmunol 178:1948-1959.
US 2019/0030119 A1

relationships between NLRXl and dyspnea were also
assessed using the BORG scale at rest and at the termination
of exercise. Although the levels of NLRXl did not correlate
with the BORG scale at rest (data not shown) they did
correlate with the BORG scale at exercise termination (FIG.
8C). lmportantly, CXCL13, which is produced by lymphoid
follicles in COPD(l7) and inhibited via an NLRXl-depen-
dent mechanism (see below) was signiﬁcantly enhanced in
patients with advanced stages of COPD where it correlated
inversely with the expression of NLRXl and also correlated
with the patient’s FEVl (%, predicted) and other clinical
variables including DLCO, the BODE index and SGRQ
scores. (FIGS. 9 and 10A-1OB and data not shown). These
studies reinforce the relationships between the suppression
of NLRX] regulated pathways and abnormal pulmonary
function and highlight the relationships between NLRXl
suppression and mortality, poor quality of life and exercise-
induced dyspnea.

[0279] To deﬁne the role(s) of NLRXl in CS—induced
responses, the elfects of CS on NLRXl expression in WT
mice were characterized and the CS-induced tissue
responses in WT and NLRXl null mutant (—/—) animals
were deﬁned using previously described methodology (5, 6).
NLRXl mRNA and protein were readily appreciated in
lungs and enriched mitochondria from WT mice (FIG.
2A-ZB). lmportantly the levels of pulmonary NLRXl
mRNA and NLRXl protein were signiﬁcantly decreased
aﬂer CS exposure (FIG, 2A-2B).

[0280] Immunohistochemical staining of NLRX] protein
revealed that NLRXl expression was prominent in alveolar
macrophages both in mice and humans (data not shown).
Western blot analysis of NLRXl protein in BAL cells from
3 month-CS-exposed lungs where alveolar macrophages
consist of more than 95% of total BAL cells further con-
ﬁrmed that NLRXl protein was signiﬁcantly suppressed
aﬁer CS exposure (FIGS. 2C and 11A). The expression of
MAVS protein, however, was not signiﬁcantly altered in
BAL cells aﬁer CS exposure (FIGS. 2C and 113). This
suppression of NLRXl was, at least partially, reversible
because, NLRXl gene expression returned to normal levels
3 months after the cessation of CS exposure (FIG. 12). In
keeping with reported experiments using WT mice, modest
BAL and alveolar inﬂammation and modest alveolar
destruction could be appreciated alter 3 and 6 months of
CS-exposure respectively (6, 18). lmportantly, these inﬂam-
matory and remodeling responses were markedly enhanced
in lungs from CS-exposed NLRX1‘/' mice which manifest
enhanced BAL total cell, macrophage and neutrophil recov-
ery (FIG. 2D and dam not shown) and exaggerated emphy-
sema that could be seen with histologic and morphometric
assessments after only 3 months of CS exposure (FIGS. 2E
and 2F and data not shown).

[0281] To further deﬁne the mechanisms by which
NLRXl suppression mediates CS—induced pulmonary
inﬂammation and alveolar remodeling responses, the mol-
ecules/pathways that are believed to play important roles in
the COPD pathogenesis were evaluated. In accord with the
importance of protease anti-protease balance, cell death,
viral infection and inﬂammasome activation in COPD
pathogenesis (reviewed in references (3, 19-21)), CS induc-
tion of MMP-12 (FIG. 2G), cathepsins K and S (data not
shown), type 1 IFNs (FIG. 2H), epithelial DNA injury and
cell death (FIG. 21) and caspase 1, lL—lB and IL-18 activa-
tion (FIG. 2J-2L) were enhanced in NLRXl null mice

Jan. 3], 2019

compared to those from WT mice. Interesting y, CS expo-
sure caused a modest increase in CXCL13 in the lungs of
WT mice and this gene expression was synergistically
upregulated in the lungs of NLRXl deﬁcient mice aﬂer 3
months of CS exposure (FIG. 13). Finally, studies were
undertaken to determine if the NLRXl sup alementation
could abrogate the phenotype in the CS exposed mice in
vivo. In these experiments, a lentiviral gene de ivery system
was used to expose mice that had been given NLRXl or
controls to CS for 6 months. These experiments demon-
strated that CS-induced emphysematous alveolar destruction
was markedly decreased in lungs from NLKXl-overex-
pressed mice compared to those of controls (F GS. 2M and
14). Taken together, these results indicate that NLRXl is a
critical inhibitor of CS-induced pulmonary inﬂammation
and tissue remodeling responses, whose inhibitory functions
are decreased in pulmonary tissues by chronic CS exposure,

[0282] The studies noted above demonstrate tiat CS expo-
sure decreases NLRX] expression and NLRXl has been
reported to be an inhibitor of MAVS (14, 15). Thus studies
were next undertaken to determine if mitochondria, in
particular MAVS, plays an important effector role in CS-
induced inﬂammation and remodeling. First, tiis was done
by comparing the CS-induced responses in WT and
MAVS'/' mice. These studies demonstrated that inﬂamma-
tion and alveolar destruction were signiﬁcantly decreased in
lungs from CS-exposed MAVS"‘ mice com ared to WT
controls (FIG. 3A-3C). CS-induced protease responses, acti-
vation of caspase 1, IL-lB and lL—l8, TUNEL staining and
type 1 IF N production were also signiﬁcantly diminished in
the absence of MAVS (FIG, 3D-3G and data not shown). In
contrast, CS-induced suppression of NLRXl was not altered
in lungs from MAVS‘/‘ mice exposed to CS for up to 6
months (FIG. 3H) Next, to determine if MAVS played a
critical roles in the enhancement CS-induced inﬂammation
and alveolar destruction observed in NLRX1"‘ mice,
NLRXl and MAVS double mutant (NLRXl' '/MAVS'/')
mice and appropriate controls were exposed to CS for 3
months. These studies demonstrated that the enhanced
emphysema, cell death, IL-18 production and CXCL13
production in NLRXl single null mice exposed to CS was
markedly decreased in similarly exposed double mutant
mice (FIGS, 31-3K, 15, and 16). Overall, these studies
demonstrate that MAVS plays a critical role in the exagger-
ated inﬂammatory, remodeling, proteolytic, cell death and
cy‘tokine responses that are induced by CS in states of
NLRXl deﬁciency.

[0283] COPD is a major cause of morbidity and mortality
and a major unmet medical need in the USA and the
world(4). In keeping with its importance, studies of COPD
and models of this disorder have highlighted the importance
of antiviral innate immunity, protease excess, epithelial cell
death, and inﬂarnrnasome activation in disease pathogenesis
(5, 6, 11, 19-23). The work described herein adds to and
integrates these ﬁndings by demonstrating that mitochondria
play an important role in the regulation of and the eﬁector
phase of CS-induced responses. Speciﬁcally they demon-
strate that NLRXl is an important inhibitor at baseline and
that CS-stimulates inﬂammation and remodeling by sup-
pressing NLRXl which allows these MAVS-dependent
responses to be seen. The inhibition of NLRXl augmented
antiviral innate immune responses, protease expression, cell
death, and inﬂammasome activation thereby mechanistically
integrating the present and prior observations. The disease
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 10 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

 

Level and/or activity of DETiléhglgtgiON
NLRX1 determined

COMPUTER
SYSTEM

OUTPUT DATA

PROCESSOR
STORAGE MODULE:

COMPARISON
(generates data)
REPORT DATA

l” D!SPLAY

MODULE
, — ‘
ll Il&--§II
I----l

 

OUTPUT
OUTPUT MODULE REPORT

 

 

Fig. 17
US 2019/0030119 A1

module can be a numerical value indicating one of these
risks or probabilities. In such embodiments, the probability
can be expressed in percentages or a fraction. For example,
higher percentage or a fraction closer to 1 indicates a higher
likelihood ofa subject having or developing COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage. In some
embodiments, the content displayed on the display module
can be single word or phrases to qualitatively indicate a risk
or probability. For example, a word “unlikely” can be used
to indicate a lower risk for having or developing COPD,
emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage,
while “likely” can be used to indicate a high risk for having
or developing COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-
induced lung damage

[0133] In one embodiment of the invention. the content
based on the computing and/0r comparison result is dis-
played on a computer monitor. In one embodiment of the
invention, the content based on the computing and/or com-
parison result is displayed through printable media. The
display module can be any suitable device conﬁgured to
receive from a computer and display computer readable
information to a user Non-limiting examples include, for
example, general-purpose computers such as those based on
Intel PENTIUM-type processor, Motorola PowerPC, Sun
UltraSPARC, Hewlett-Packard PA-RISC processors, any of
a variety of processors available from Advanced Micro
Devices (AMD) of Sunnyvale, Calif, or any other type of
processor, visual display devices such as ﬂat panel displays,
cathode ray tubes and the like, as well as computer printers
of various types.

[0134] In one embodiment, a World Wide Web browser is
used for providing a user interface for display of the content
based on the computing/comparison result. It should be
understood that other modules of the invention can be
adapted to have a web browser interface. Through the Web
browser, a user can constnrct requests for retrieving data
from the computing/comparison module. Thus, the user will
typically point and click to user interface elements such as
buttons, pull down menus, scroll bars and the like conven-
tionally employed in graphical user interfaces.

[0135] Systems and computer readable media described
herein are merely illustrative embodiments of the invention
for determining the level and/or activity of NLRXI in a
sample obtained from a subject, and therefore are not
intended to limit the scope of the invention. Variations of the
systems and computer readable media described herein are
possible and are intended to fall within the scope of the
invention.

[0136] The modules of the machine, or those used in the
computer readable medium, may assume numerous conﬁgu-
rations. For example, function may be provided on a single
machine or distributed over multiple machines.

[0137] For convenience, the meaning of some terms and
phrases used in the speciﬁcation, examples, and appended
claims, are provided below Unless stated otherwise, or
implicit from context, the following terms and phrases
include the meanings provided below. The deﬁnitions are
provided to aid in describing particular embodiments, and
are not intended to limit the claimed invention, because the
scope of the invention is limited only by the claims. Unless
otherwise deﬁned, all technical and scientiﬁc terms used
herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by
one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
belongs. If there is an apparent discrepancy between the

Jan. 31, 2019

usage of a term in the art and its deﬁnition provided herein,
the deﬁnition provided within the speciﬁcation shall prevail.
[0138] For convenience, certain terms employed herein, in
the speciﬁcation, examples and appended claims are col-
lected here.

[0139] The terms “decrease”, “reduced”, “reduction”, or
“inhibit” are all used herein to mean a decrease by a
statistically signiﬁcant amount. In some embodiments,
“reduce,” “reduction” or “decrease” or “inhibit” typically
means a decrease by at least 10% as compared to a reference
level (e.g. the absence of a given treatment) and can include,
for example, a decrease by at least about 10%, at least about
20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least about
35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about
50%, at least about 55%, at least about 60%, at least about
65%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, at least about
80%, at least about 85%, at least about 90%, at least about
95%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, or more. As
used herein, “reduction” or “inhibition” does not encompass
a complete inhibition or reduction as compared to a refer-
ence level. “Complete inhibition” is a 100% inhibition as
compared to a reference level. A decrease can be preferably
down to a level accepted as within the range of normal for
an individual without a given disorder.

[0140] The terms “increased”, “increase”, “enhance”, or
“activate” are all used herein to mean an increase by a
statically signiﬁcant amount In some embodiments, the
terms “increased”, “increase”, “enhance”, or “activate” can
mean an increase of at least 10% as compared to a reference
level, for example an increase of at least about 20%, or at
least about 30%, or at least about 40%, or at least about 50%,
or at least about 60%, or at least about 70%, or at least about
80%, or at least about 90% or up to and including a 100%
increase or any increase between 10-100% as compared to
a reference level, or at least about a 2-fold, or at least about
a 3-fold, or at least about a 4-fold, or at least about a 5-fold
or at least about a 10—fold increase, or any increase between
2-fold and 10—fold or greater as compared to a reference
level. In the context of a marker or symptom, a “increase”
is a statistically signiﬁcant increase in such level.

[0141] As used herein, a “subject” means a human or
animal. Usually the animal is a vertebrate such as a primate,
rodent, domestic animal or game animal. Primates include
chimpanzees, cynomologous monkeys, spider monkeys, and
macaques, e.g., Rhesus. Rodents include mice, rats, wood-
chucks, ferrets, rabbits and hamsters. Domestic and game
animals include cows, horses, pigs, deer, bison, bulfalo,
feline species, e.gi, domestic cat, canine species, e.gi, dog,
fox, wolf, avian species, e.g., chicken, emu, ostrich, and ﬁsh,
e.g., trout, catﬁsh and salmon. In some embodiments, the
subject is a mammal, e.g., a primate, e.g., a human. The
terms, “individual,” “patient” and “subject” are used inter-
changeably herein.

[0142] Preferably, the subject is a mammal. The mammal
can be a human, non-human primate, mouse, rat, dog, cat,
horse, or cow, but is not limited to these examples. Mam-
mals other than humans can be advantageously used as
subjects that represent animal models of COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage. A sub-
ject can be male or female.

[0143] As used herein, “engineered” refers to the aspect of
having been manipulated by the hand of man. For example,
a NLRXI polypeptide is considered to be “engineered”
when the sequence of the polypeptide and/or encoding
US 2019/0030119 Al

the treatment; (b) measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject after administration of the
treatment; (c) determining that the treatment is efﬁcacious
when the expression level determined in step (b) is not
decreased relative to the expression level determined in step
(a); and (d) determining that the treatment is not efﬁcacious
when the expression level determined in step (b) is
decreased relative to the expression level determined in step
(a). In one aspect, described herein is a method of treatment
for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung dam-
age comprising; measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject; treating the subject when
the level of NL {X1 is decreased relative to a reference level.
In one aspect, c escribed herein is a method of treatment for
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage
comprising; treating a subject determined to have a level of
NLRXl which is decreased relative to a reference level. In
some embodiments, the treatment comprises a treatment
selected from tie group consisting of: administration of a
bronchodilator; administration of an inhaled steroid; admiri-
istration of oxygen therapy; bullectomy; lung volume reduc-
tion surgery; smoking cessation; lung transplant; adminis-
tration of an inhibitor of MAVS; administration of an agonist
of NLRXl; acministration of a nucleic acid encoding
NLRXl; and administration of an NLRXl polypeptide.

[0014] In some embodiments, the level of NLRXl is
determined by measuring the level of a nucleic acid. In some
embodiments, tie level of NLRXl is determined by mea-
suring the level of NLRXI RNA transcript. In some embodi-
ments, the leve of the nucleic acid is determined using a
method selected from the group consisting of: RT-PCR;
quantitative RT-PCR; Northem blot; microarray based
expression analysis; next-generation sequencing; and RNA
in situ hybridization In some embodiments, the level of
NLRXl is determined by measuring the level of NLRXl
polypeptide. In some embodiments, the level of the poly-
peptide is determined using a method selected from the
group consisting of Western blot; irnmunoprecipitation;
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); radioimmu-
nological assay (RIA); sandwich assay; ﬂuorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH); immunohistological staining;
radioimmunometric assay; immunoﬂuoresence assay; mass
spectroscopy; FACS; and imrnunoelectrophoresis assay. In
some embodiments, the polypeptide level is measured using
immunochemistry. In some embodiments; the antibody
reagent is detectably labeled or generates a detectable signal.

[0015] In some embodiments, the expression level of
NLRXl is normalized relative to the expression level of one
or more reference genes or reference proteins. In some
embodiments, the reference level of NLRXl is the expres-
sion level of NLRXl in a prior sample obtained from the
subject. In some embodiments, the subject is a subject with
a history of smoking. In some embodiments, the sample is
selected from the group consisting of: a lung biopsy; bron-
choalveolar lavage (BAL); sputum; induced sputum; blood;
plasma; and serum In some embodiments, the method or
assay further comprises the step of treating the subject with
a treatment selected from the group consisting of: adminis-
tration of a bronchodilator; administration of an inhaled
steroid; administration of oxygen therapy; bullectomy; lung
volume reduction surgery; smoking cessation; lung trans-
plant; administration of an inhibitor of MAVS; administra-

 

Jan. 3], 2019

tion of an agonist of NLRXl; administration of a nucleic
acid encoding NLRXl; and administration of an NLRXl
polypeptide.

[0016] In one aspect, described herein is a kit for perform-
ing the method or assay of the foregoing aspects.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

[0017] FIGS. 1A-1H demonstrate NLRXl mRNA sup-
pression in patients with COPD and its correlation with
disease severity. The levels of NLRXl mRNA in LTRC
samples were plotted in controls (0) and in patients with
COPD of varying severity (GOLD l; 2, 3, and 4) (FIG. 1A).
In FIG. 18 the levels ofNLRXl are compared in no disease
(controls, 0) and patients with, mild to moderate (GOLD l
and 2) and severe COPD (GOLD 3 and 4). The levels of
NLRXl protein in mitochondria-enriched tissue fractions
(MF) from controls (0) and GOLD l, 2, 3, and 4 individuals
were evaluated by western blot analysis (FIG. 1C). The
levels of NLRXI protein in these westem evaluations were
evaluated by densitometry and compared to the levels of
expression of the voltage dependent anion channel (VDAC)
(** p<0.01). The correlations between the levels of NLRXl
mRNA in the LTRC samples and pre-bronchodilator
FEV1(% of predicted value) (FIG. 1D) and post-broncho-
dilator FEV1(% of predicted value) (FIG. 1E) are also
illustrated. FIG. 1F depicts is a box-whiskers plot from the
Pittsburgh cohort describing the relationship between
NLRXl gene expression in microarray evaluations anc
radiologic emphysema (** p<0.05 compared to control anc
the >40% emphysema group). From the Asan cohort, the
standardized levels of NLRX] gene transcriptome were
plotted in controls and in patients with COPD (F IG. 1G). In
FIG. 1H the levels of NLRXl gene expression are compare
in no disease (controls) and patients with COPD of varying
severity (GOLD l, 2, and 3). The bars in FIGS. 1A, 1B, anc
16 represent the meanzSEM of the noted evaluations. The
statistics that were applied were the nonparametric Kruskal-
Wallis test (FIG. 1A), Mann-Whitney U test (FIGS. 1B anc
1C), Pearson correlation analysis (FIGS. 1D and 1E), two-
tailed unpaired t-test (FIGS. 1F and 1G) and ANOVA test
(FIG. 1H). In FIGS. 1F and 1H, the box shows the mean anc
standard deviation of the group and the whiskers show
minimum and maximum expression values.
[0018] FIGS. 2A-2M demonstrate that cigarette smoke
(CS)-induced suppression of NLRXl and the role 0
NLRXl in CS-induced pulmonary inﬂammation and alveo-
lar destruction. NLRX] mRNA (FIG. 2A) and protein (FIG.
2B) are suppressed by CS exposure. In FIG. 2B; the bar
graph to the right of the gel represents the results 0
densitometry comparing the levels of NLRXl and voltage
dependent anion channel (V DAC) in mitochondria-enrichec
fractions (MF) and cytosol-enriched fractions (CF). After 3
months of CS exposure, western blot analysis of the NLRX]
protein expression in BAL cells are presented in FIG. 2C.
Aﬁer 3 months of CS exposure, the roles of NLRXl were
evaluated using comparisons of responses in wild type (WT)
and NLRXl null mice. BAL total cell recovery (FIG. 2D),
representative histology (FIG. 2E), lung morphometry (FIG.
2F), the expression of WIMP-12 mRNA (FIG. 2G), the
expression of interferon (IFN)-alpha (a) 4 mRNA, and
TUNEL evaluation of structural (epithelial and endothelial)
cells (FIG. 2I) are illustrated. The levels of active IL-lB
(FIG. 2]) and IL-18 (FIG. 2K) in lung lysates were also
measured by ELISA. In panel (FIG. 2L), western blot
US 2019/0030119 A1

evaluations of lung tissue lysates are used to characterize the
activation status of IL-1 [3, IL-18 and caspase-1. In FIG. 2M,
the measurement of mean chord length is presented from
lentiviral NLRXl overexpressed mice (NLRXl vector+)
and appropriate controls (control vector+) after 6 month-
CS-exposure, Size bar on FIG. 2B represents 400 pm. The
values in FIGS, 2A, 2D, 2F-2K and 2M represent the
meanstM of evaluations in a minimum of 5 mice (*
p<0.05, ** p<0.01). FIGS 2B, 2C, and 2L are representative
of a minimum of 3 similar experiments.

[0019] FIGS. 3A-3K demonstrate the role of MAVS in
CS-induced pulmonary inﬂammation and alveolar destruc-
tion, After 6 months of CS exposure, the roles of MAVS
were evaluated using comparisons of responses in WT and
MAVS null mice. BAL total cell recovery (FIG. 3A), rep-
resentative histology (FIG, 3B), lung morphometry (FIG.
3C) and the expression of MMP-l2 mRNA (FIG, 3D) are
illustrated. In FIG. 3E, western blot evaluations of lung
tissue lysates were used to demonstrate the activation status
of IL-18 and caspase-1. The results of TUNEL evaluations
of structural cells (FIG. 3F), the expression of interferon
(IFN)—ot4 mRNA (FIG. SG) and the expression of NLRXI
mRNA (FIG, 3H) are also illustrated. The results of the
evaluation of mean chord length (FIG, 31), TUNEL evalu-
ations of structural cells (FIG. 3]) and the measurement of
the level of IL-18 in lung tissues (FIG. 3K) are presented
from MAVS'/'fNLRX]'/' mice, NLRXl'/' mice and wild
type (MAVS*/*/NLRX1*/*) controls aﬁer 3 month-CS-ex-
posure. Size bar on FIG. 3B represents 400 pm, The values
in FIGS. 3A, 3C, 3D, and 3F-3K represent the meanstM
of evaluations in a minimum of 5 mice. (* p<0.05, **
p<0.01). FIG. SE is representative of a minimum of 3 similar
evaluations.

[0020] FIGS, 4A-4B demonstrate the correlations between
the levels of (FIG. 4A) NLRXl mRNA and pre-bronchodi-
lator FEV1(% of predicted value) and (FIG. 4B) NLRXl
mRNA and post-bronchodilator FEV1(% of predicted
value), respectively, in the Korean Asan cohort

[0021] FIG. 5 demonstrates the statistical result of the
comparison between each subgroup in Korean Asan cohort.
Because only one patient was in the subgroup of GOLD3, no
comparison was undertaken with the subgroup of GOLD 3
(* For the overall comparison between all subgroups, please
see FIG. 1H).

[0022] F G. 6 demonstrates the levels of NLRXI mRNA
and the status of smoking history in the Korean Asan cohort.
[0023] F GS. 7A-7B demonstrate the levels of (FIG. 7A)
MAVS mRNA and (FIG, 7B) protein in LTRC samples were
plotted in controls (0) and in patients with COPD of varying
severity (GOLD l, 2, 3, and 4).

[0024] F GS, 8A-8C demonstrate the correlations between
the levels of NLRXl mRNA and (FIG. 8A) dilfusing capac-
ity (DLCO), (FIG. 8B) BODE index, and (FIG. 8C) BORG
scale, respectively, in the LTRC cohort.

[0025] F G. 9 demonstrates the levels of CXCL13 protein
in LTRC samples plotted in controls (0) and in patients with
COPD of varying severity (GOLD l, 2, 3, and 4)

[0026] F GS. 10A-10D demonstrate the correlations
between the levels of CXCL13 protein and (FIG. 10A)
post-bronc iodilator FEV1(% of predicted value), (FIG.
108) NLRXI mRNA, (FIG. 10C) BODE index, and (FIG.
10D) SGRQ score, respectively, in LTRC cohort,

[0027] F GS. 11A-11B demonstrate, from the Westemblot
presented on FIG. 2C the densitometric evaluation of (FIG.

 

Jan. 3], 2019

11A) NLRXl expression and (FIG. 11B) MAV S expression,
respectively, are demonstrated (“‘ p<0.01).

[0028] FIG. 12 demonstrates the suppression of NLRXI
mRNA accumulation in 3-month cigarette smoke-exposed
lungs (CS+) and its recovery 3 months after the cessation of
CS exposure (#) (’M p<0,01).

[0029] FIG, 13 demonstrates the enhancement of CXCL13
mRNA expression aﬁer 3-month cigarette smoke-exposure
(CS+) in the lungs from NLRXI deﬁcient (NLRXl—/—)
mice compared to those from WT controls (NLRX1+/+) (‘K
p<0.05, ** p<0.01).

[0030] 31G. 14 demonstrates the restoration of CS-in-
duced emphysematous alveolar destruction after NLRXI
gene overexpression in vivo. Aﬁer 6-month-CS-exposure,
morphometric evaluation of alveolar surface area was ana-
lyzed (’* <0.05, M p<0.01).

[0031] 31G. 15 depicts measurement of alveolar surface
area after 3-month-CS-exposure in wild type (WT) controls,
NLRX1“/“ and NLRXl‘/‘/1\/IAVS‘/‘ mice (M p<0.01).
[0032] 31G, 16 demonstrates the enhancement ofCXCLl3
mRNA expression alter 3-month cigarette smoke-exposure
(CS+) in the lungs from NLRXI deﬁcient (NLRXl—/—)
mice compared to those from WT controls (NLRXl+/+) (*
p<0.05, ** p<0.01).

[0033] 31G, 17 is a diagram of an exemplary embodiment
of a system for performing an assay for determining the lewel
of NLRXl in a sample obtained from a subject.

[0034] 21G. 18 is a diagram of an exemplary embodiment
of a com arison module as described herein.

[0035] JIG, 19 is a diagram of an exemplary embodiment
of an operating system and applications for a computing
system as described herein.

 

DETAILED DESCRIPTION

[0036] As described herein, the inventors have found that
inhibition of MAVS, e.g., by stimulating NLRXI activity,
has a therapeutic effect on lung diseases, eg. COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage. Accord-
ingly, provided herein are methods of treating COPD,
emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage
by administering an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of
NLRXI.

[0037] As used herein, “emphysema” refers to a chronic
lung disease which alfects the alveoli and/or the ends of the
smallest bronchi. The condition is characterized by destruc-
tive changes and enlargement of the alveoli (air sacs) within
the lungs. The lung loses its elasticity and therefore these
areas of the lungs become enlarged. These enlarged areas
trap stale air and do not eﬁectively exchange it with fresh air.
This results in diﬁicult breathing and may result in insuﬁi-
cient oxygen being delivered to the blood. The predominant
symptom in patients with emphysema is shortness of breath,
In some embodiments, the emphysema can be cigarette-
smoke induced emphysema. As used herein, “COPD” or
“chronic obstructive pulmonary disease” is generally
applied to chronic respiratory disease processes character-
ized by the persistent obstruction of bronchial air ﬂow.
COPD patients can suffer from conditions such as bronchi-
tis, cystic ﬁbrosis, asthma or emphysema. As used herein,
“cigarette smoke-induced lung damage” refers to damage to
lung tissues occurring in subjects exposed to cigarette
smoke, including but not limited to: inﬂammation; alveolar
destruction; protease induction; structural cell apoptosis;
and inﬁammasome activation. Cigarette smoke-induced
US 2019/0030119 A1

nucleic acid sequence manipulated by the hand of man to
differ from the sequence of an polypeptide as it exists in
nature. As is common practice and is understood by those in
the art, progeny and copies of an engineered polynucleotide
and/or polypeptide are typically still referred to as “engi-
neered” even though the actual manipulation was performed
on a prior entity.

[0144] As used herein, “recombinant” refers to a cell,
tissue or organism that has undergone transformation with a
new combination of genes or DNA. When used in reference
to nucleic acid molecules, “recombinant” refers to a com-
bination of nucleic acid molecules that are joined together
using recombinant DNA technology into a progeny nucleic
acid molecule, and/or a heterologous nucleic acid sequence
introduced into a cell, tissue, or organism. When used in
reference to a polypeptide, “recombinant” refers to a poly-
peptide which is the expression product of a recombinant
nucleic acid, and can be such a polypeptide as produced by
a recombinant cell, tissue, or organiams. The nucleic acid
molecule can be stably integrated into the genome of the
host or the nucleic acid molecule can also be present as an
extrachromosomal molecule. Such an extrachromosomal
molecule can be auto-replicating. Recombinant viruses,
cells, and organisms are understood to encompass not only
the end product of a transformation process, but also recom-
binant progeny thereof.

[0145] A subject can be one who has been previously
diagnosed with or identiﬁed as suffering from or having a
condition in need of treatment (eg. COPD, emphysema,
and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage) or one or
more complications related to such a condition, and option-
ally, have already undergone treatment for the condition or
the one or more complications related to the condition.
Alternatively, a subject can also be one who has not been
previously diagnosed as having a condition or one or more
complications related to the condition. For example, a
subject can be one who exhibits one or more risk factors for
a condition or one or more complications related to the
condition or a subject who does not exhibit risk factors.
[0146] A “subject in need” of treatment for a particular
condition can be a subject having that condition, diagnosec
as having that condition, or at risk of developing that
condition.

[0147] As used herein, the terms “protein" and “polypep-
tide” are used interchangeably herein to designate a series 0
amino acid residues, connected to each other by peptide
bonds between the alpha-amino and carboxy groups 0
adjacent residues. The terms “protein”, and “polypeptide’
refer to a polymer of amino acids, including modiﬁed amino
acids (e.g., phosphorylated, glycated, glycosylated, etc.) an
amino acid analogs, regardless of its size or function.
“Protein” and “polypeptide” are oﬁen used in reference to
relatively large polypeptides, whereas the term “peptide” is
oﬁen used in reference to small polypeptides, but usage o
these terms in the art overlaps. The terms “protein” anc
“polypeptide” are used interchangeably herein when refer-
ring to a gene product and fragments thereof. Thus, exem-
plary polypeptides or proteins include gene products, natu-
rally occurring proteins, homologs, orthologs, paralogs,
fragments and other equivalents, variants, fragments, anc
analogs of the foregoing.

[0148] As used herein, a particular “polypeptide”, eig. a
NLRXl polypeptide can include the human polypeptide
(e.g., SEQ ID NO: 2); as well as homologs from other

 

Jan. 31, 2019

species, including but not limited to bovine, dog, cat
chicken, murine, rat, porcine, ovine, turkey, horse, ﬁsh,
baboon and other primates. The terms also refer to fragments
or variants of the native polypeptide that maintain at least
50% of the activity or effect of the native full length
polypeptide, eig. as measured in an appropriate animal
model. Conservative substitution variants that maintain the
activity of wildtype polypeptides will include a conservative
substitution as deﬁned herein. The identiﬁcation of amino
acids most likely to be tolerant of conservative substitution
while maintaining at least 50% of the activity of the wildtype
is guided by, for example, sequence alignment with
homologs or paralogs from other species. Amino acids that
are identical between homologs are less likely to tolerate
change, while those showing conservative dilferences are
obviously much more likely to tolerate conservative change
in the context of an artiﬁcial variant. Similarly, positions
with non-conservative diEerences are less likely to be criti-
cal to function and more likely to tolerate conservative
substitution in an artiﬁcial variant. Variants can be tested for
activity, for example, by administering the variant to an
appropriate animal model of allograft rejection as described
herein.

[0149] In some embodiments, a polypeptide, e.g., a
NLRxl polypeptide, can be a variant of a sequence
described herein, eig. a variant of a NLRXl polypeptide
comprising the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2. In
some embodiments, the variant is a conservative substitution
variant. Variants can be obtained by mutations of native
nucleotide sequences, for example. A “variant,” as referred
to herein, is a polypeptide substantially homologous to a
native or reference polypeptide, but which has an amino acid
sequence different from that of the native or reference
polypeptide because of one or a plurality of deletions,
insertions or substitutions. Polypeptide-encoding DNA
sequences encompass sequences that comprise one or more
additions, deletions, or substitutions of nucleotides when
compared to a native or reference DNA sequence, but that
encode a variant protein or fragment thereof that retains the
relevant biological activity relative to the reference protein,
e.g., at least 50% of the wildtype reference protein. As to
amino acid sequences, one of skill will recognize that
individual substitutions, deletions or additions to a nucleic
acid, peptide, polypeptide, or protein sequence which alters
a single amino acid or a small percentage, (iie. 5% or fewer,
eig. 4% or fewer, or 3% or fewer, or 1% or fewer) of amino
acids in the encoded sequence is a “conservatively modiﬁed
variant” where the alteration results in the substitution of an
amino acid with a chemically similar amino acid. It is
contemplated that some changes can potentially improve the
relevant activity, such that a variant, whether conservative or
note, has more than 100% of the activity of wildtype, eig.
110%, 125%, 150%, 175%, 200%, 500%, 1000% or more.

[0150] One method of identifying amino acid residues
which can be substituted is to align, for example, the human
polypeptide to a homolog from one or more non-human
species. Alignment can provide guidance regarding not only
residues likely to be necessary for function but also, con-
versely, those residues likely to tolerate change. Where, for
example, an alignment shows two identical or similar amino
acids at corresponding positions, it is more likely that that
site is important functionally. Where, conversely, alignment
shows residues in corresponding positions to differ signiﬁ-
cantly in size, charge, hydrophobicity, etc., it is more likely
US 2019/0030119 A1

has a higher risk of having or developing COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage. In one aspect,
described herein is a method of identifying a subject in need
of treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-in-
duced lung damage, the method comprising: measuring the
level of NLRXl in a test sample obtained from a subject;
and identifying the subject as being in need of treatment for
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage
when the expression level of NLRXI is decreased relative to
a reference level. In one aspect, described herein is a method
of determining if a subject is at risk for COPD, emphysema,
and/or cigarette-induced lung damage, the method compris-
ing: measuring the level of NLRX] in a test sample obtained
from a subject; comparing the level of NLRXl in the sample
to a reference level of NLRXl; determining that the subject
is at risk for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced
lung damage when the level of NLRXl is decreased relative
to a reference level; and determining that the subject is not
at risk for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung
damage when the level of NLRXl is not decreased relative
to a reference leveli In some embodiments, the level of
NLRXl is decreased relative to a reference amount if it is
less than the reference amount by a statistically signiﬁcant
amount.

[0047] In some embodiments. measurement of the level of
a target, e.g, of an NLRXl expression product can comprise
a transformation As used herein, the term “transforming” or
“transformation” refers to changing an object or a substance,
e.gl, biological sample, nucleic acid or protein, into another
substance. The transformation can be physical, biological or
chemical. Exemplary physical transformation includes, but
not limited to, pre-n'eatment of a biological sample, e.g,,
from whole blood to blood serum by differential centrifu-
gation. A biological/chemical transformation can involve at
least one enzyme and/or a chemical reagent in a reaction,
For example, a DNA sample can be digested into fragments
by one or more restriction enzyme, or an exogenous mol-
ecule can be attached to a fragmented DNA sample with a
ligase, In some embodiments, a DNA sample can undergo
enzymatic replication, e,g., by polymerase chain reaction
(PCR).

[0048] Transformation, measurement, and/or detection of
a target molecule, e.g. a NLRXI mRNA or polypeptide can
comprise contacting a sample obtained from a subject with
a reagent (e.g. a detection reagent) which is speciﬁc for the
target, e.gl, a NLRXl-speciﬁc reagent In some embodi-
ments, the target-speciﬁc reagent is detectably labeled. In
some embodiments, the target-speciﬁc reagent is capable of
generating a detectable signal. In some embodiments, the
target-speciﬁc reagent generates a detectable signal when
the target molecule is present.

[0049] Methods to measure NLRXl gene expression
products are well known to a skilled artisani Such methods
to measure gene expression products, eg, protein level,
include ELISA (enzyme linked immunosorbent assay),
western blot, immunoprecipitation, and immunoﬂuores-
cence using detection reagents such as an antibody or
protein binding agents, Alternatively, a peptide can be
detected in a subject by introducing into a subject a labeled
anti-peptide antibody and other types of detection agent. For
example, the antibody can be labeled with a detectable
marker whose presence and location in the subject is
detected by standard imaging techniques.

Jan. 3], 2019

[0050] For example, antibodies for NLRXl are commer-
cially available and can be used for the purposes of the
invention to measure protein expression levels, e.g. anti-
NLRXl (Cat. No. ab105412; Abcam, Cambridge Mass).
Alternatively, since the amino acid sequences for NRLXl
are known and publically available at NCBI website, one of
skill in the art can raise their own antibodies against these
polypeptides of interest for the purpose of the invention
[0051] The amino acid sequences of the polypeptides
described herein, erg, NLRXl have been assigned NCBI
accession numbers for diﬁerent species such as human,
mouse and rat. In particular, the NCBI accession numbers
for the amino acid sequence of human NLRXl is included
herein, e.g, SEQ ID NO: 2.

[0052] In some embodiments, immunohistochemisz
(“IHC”) and immunocytochemistry (“ICC”) techniques can
be used. IHC is the application of immunochemistry to
tissue sections, whereas ICC is the application of immuno-
chemistry to cells or tissue imprints after they have under-
gone speciﬁc cytological preparations such as, for example,
liquid-based preparations, Irnmunochemistry is a family of
techniques based on the use of an antibody, wherein the
antibodies are used to speciﬁcally target molecules inside or
on the surface of cells, The antibody typically contains a
marker that will undergo a biochemical reaction, and thereby
experience a change of color, upon encountering the targeted
molecules. In some instances, signal ampliﬁcation can be
integrated into the particular protocol, wherein a secondary
antibody, that includes the marker stain or marker signal,
follows the application of a primary speciﬁc antibody.
[0053] In some embodiments, the assay can be a Western
blot analysis, Alternatively, proteins can be separated by
two-dimensional gel electrophoresis systems, Two-dimen-
sional gel electrophoresis is well known in the art and
typically involves iso-electric focusing along a ﬁrst dimen-
sion followed by SDS-PAGE electrophoresis along a second
dimension. These methods also require a considerable
amount of cellular material. The analysis of 2D SDS-PAGE
gels can be performed by determining the intensity of
protein spots on the gel, or can be performed using immune
detection. In other embodiments, protein samples are ana-
lyzed by mass spectroscopy,

[0054] Immunological tests can be used with the methods
and assays described herein and include, for example, com-
petitive and non-competitive assay systems using techniques
such as Western blots, radioimmunoassay (RIA), ELISA
(enzyme linked immunosorbent assay): “sandwich” immu-
noassays, immunoprecipitation assays, innnunodiﬁ'usion
assays, agglutination assays, e.g. latex agglutination,
complement-ﬁxation assays, immunoradiometric assays,
ﬂuorescent immunoassays, eg. FIA (ﬂuorescence-linked
immunoassay), chemiluminescence immunoassays (CLIA),
electrochemiluminescence immunoassay (ECLIA, counting
immunoassay (CIA), lateral ﬂow tests or immunoassay
(LFIA), magnetic irrnnunoassay (MIA), and protein A
immunoassays. Methods for performing such assays are
known in the art, provided an appropriate antibody reagent
is available. In some embodiment, the immunoassay can be
a quantitative or a semi-quantitative immunoassay.

[0055] An immunoassay is a biochemical test that mea-
sures the concentration of a substance in a biological sample,
typically a ﬂuid sample such as urine, using the interaction
of an antibody or antibodies to its antigen. The assay takes
advantage of the highly speciﬁc binding of an antibody with
US 2019/0030119 A1

lung damage can be present in a subject having or diagnosed
as having emphysema or COPD or in a subject not having
or not diagnosed as having emphysema or COPD. In some
embodiments of any of the aspects described herein, the
patient can be a patient with a history of smoking.

[0038] As used herein, “MAVS” or “mitochondrial anti-
viral-signaling protein" refers to a protein found in the
mitochondria, that when aggregated, activates IR_F3
dimeri7ation, contributing to the recognition of virii. MAVS
is also known in the art as VISA, IPS-I, and Cardif
Sequences for MAVS expression products are known for a
number of species, e.g., human MAVS (NCBI Gene ID:
57506) mRNA (SEQ ID NO: 3; NCBI Ref Seq:
NM7020746) and polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 4; NCBI Ref
Seq: NP7065797),

[0039] As used herein, “inhibitor” refers to an agent which
can decrease the expression and/or activity of the targeted
expression product (eg. mRNA encoding the target or a
target polypeptide), e.g. by at least 10% or more, e.g. by 10%
or more, 50% or more, 70% or more, 80% or more, 90% or
more, 95% or more, or 98% or more, The eﬂicacy of an
inhibitor of, for example, MAVS, e.g, its ability to decrease
the level and/or activity of MAVS can be determined, e.g, by
measuring the level of an expression product of MAVS
and/or the activity of MAVS. Methods for measuring the
level of a given mRNA and/or polypeptide are known to one
of skill in the art, e.g. RTPCR with primers can be used to
determine the level of RNA and Western blotting with an
antibody (e,g, an anti-MAVS antibody, e.g, Cat No,
ab189109 Abcam; Cambridge, Mass.) can be used to deter-
mine the level of a polypeptide The activity of, e.g, MAVS
can be determined using methods known in the art and
described elsewhere herein, e.g., by measuring the levels of
expression of CXCL13, MMP-12, cathepsisn K, cathepsin
S, type 1 IFNs, caspase 1, IL-1B, and/or IL—18, where
decreased MAVS levels and/or activity results in decreased
levels of CXCL13, MMP-12, cathepsisn K, cathepsin S,
type 1 IFNs, caspase 1, IL-1 [3, and/or IL-18. In some
embodiments, the inhibitor can be an inhibitory nucleic acid;
an aptamer; an antibody reagent; an antibody; or a small
molecule.

[0040] In some embodiments, an inhibitor of MAVS can
be an agonist of NLRXl, In some embodiments, an inhibitor
of MAVS can be a modulator of NLRXl-dependent path-
ways.

[0041] As used herein, “NLRXl” or “nucleotide-binding
oligomeri7ation domain leucine rich repeat containing XI”
refers to an intracellular signaling protein with a N-terminal
mitochondrion localization signal, a NACHT domain, an a
C-terminal LRR. NLRXl is also known in the art as NODS,
NODS, and CLR11.3, Sequences for NLRXI expression
products are known for a number of species, e,g,, human
NLRXl (NCBI Gene ID: 79671) mRNA (SEQ ID NO: 1;
NCBI Ref Seq: NM_001282144) and polypeptide (SEQ ID
NO: 2; NCBI Ref Seq: NP_001269073).

[0042] As used herein, “agonist” refers to any agent that
increases the level and/or activity of the target, e.g, of
NLRXl. As used herein, the term “agonist” refers to an
agent which increases the expression and/or activity of the
target by at least 10% or more, e.g. by 10% or more, 50%
or more, 100% or more, 200% or more, 500% or more, or
1000% or more, The efﬁcacy of an agonist of, for example,
NLRXI, e.g. its ability to decrease the level and/or activity
of NLRX] can be determined, e.g. by measuring the level of

Jan. 31, 2019

an expression product of NLRXl and/ or the activity of
NLRX . Methods for measuring the level of a given mRNA
and/or olypeptide are known to one of skill in the art, e.g.
RTPCR with primers can be used to determine the level of
RNA and Western blotting with an antibody (e.g, an anti-
NLRX antibody, e.gr Cat No, ab1054l2 Abcam', Carn-
bridge, Massr) can be used to determine the level of a
polypeptide. The activity of, erg. NLRXl can be determined
using methods known in the art and described elsewhere
herein, e.g., by measuring the levels of expression of
CXCL 3, MMP-12, cathepsisn K, cathepsin S, type 1 IFNs,
caspase 1, IL-1B, and/or IL-18, where increased NLRXl
levels and/or activity results in decreased levels of CXCLI3,
MMP- 2, cathepsisn K, cathepsin S, type I IFNs, caspase 1,
IL-lﬁ, and/or IL-IS. Non-limiting examples of agonists of
NLRX can include NLRX] polypeptides or fragments
thereof and nucleic acids encoding a NLRXl polypeptide,
erg. a polypeptide comprising the sequence SEQ ID NO: 2
or a nucleic acid comprising the sequence of SEQ ID NO:
1 or variants thereof. In some embodiments, the agonist of
NRLX can be an NLRXI polypeptide. In some embodi-
ments, the agonist of NLRXI can be an engineered and/or
recombinant polypeptide, In some embodiments, the agonist
of NLRXl can be a nucleic acid encoding NLRXI, e.g, a
functional fragment thereof.

[0043] In some embodiments, the agonist of NLRX] can
be a modulator of an NLRXl-dependent pathway. NLRX] -
dependent pathways are known in the art and described, e.g.,
in Allen et al. Front Immunol 2014 5:169; which is incor-
porated by reference herein in its entirety. By way of
non-limiting example, a modulator of an NLRXl -dependent
pathway suitable for use in the methods described herein can
be an inhibitor of TRAF6, IKK-gamma, IKK-alpha/beta,
IKB, p65, p50, RIGl, TBKl, IRF, IFN-l, and/or IL-6,

[0044] In some embodiments, a therapy as described
herein, e.g. an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of
NLRXI can be targeted to the mitochondria. Targeting can
be achieved, e.g, by conjugating the agent to a targeting
group or including the agent in a composition comprising a
targeting group (e.g. a nanoparticule). Targeting groups can
include, erg., a cell or tissue targeting agent, e.gr, a lectin,
glycoprotein, lipid or protein, e,g., an antibody, that binds to
a speciﬁed cell type such as lung cell, among others, or a cell
permeation agent, Non-limiting examples of mitochondrial
targeting groups can include triphenylphosphonium (TPP);
mitochondrial targeting sequence polypeptides, and the like.
Mitochondrial targeting is further described in the art, see,
e.g., Weinberg and Chandel Nat Chem Biol 2015 11:9-15;
Dongworth et al. Future Cardiol 2014 10:255-272; and
Sureshbabu Front Physiol 2013 4:384; each of which is
incorporated by reference herein in its entirety,

[0045] As described herein, decreased levels of NLRXl
expression and/or activity indicate that a subject has an
increased risk of having and/or developing COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage. Accord-
ingly, in some embodiments of any of the aspects described
herein, the subject that is treated in accordance with the
methods described herein is a subject having or identiﬁed as
having a decreased level of NLRXl expression and/or
activity,

[0046] In one aspect, described herein is an assay com-
prising: measuring the level of NLRXI in a test sample
obtained from a subject; wherein an decrease in the expres-
sion level relative to a reference level indicates the subject
US 2019/0030119A1
21

element of viral origin and has the capacity to be packaged
into a viral vector particle. The viral vector can contain the
nucleic acid encoding encoding a polypeptide as described
herein in place of non-essential viral genes. The vector
and/or particle may be utilized for the purpose of transfer-
ring any nucleic acids into cells either in vitro or in vivo.
Numerous forms of viral vectors are known in the art.

[0166] By “recombinant vector” is meant a vector that
includes a heterologous nucleic acid sequence, or “trans-
gene” that is capable of expression in vivo. It should be
understood that the vectors described herein can, in some
embodiments, be combined with other suitable compositions
and therapies In some embodiments, the vector is episomal.
The use of a suitable episomal vector provides a means of
maintaining the nucleotide of interest in the subject in high
copy number extra chromosomal DNA thereby eliminating
potential effects of chromosomal integration.

[0167] In some embodiments, an inhibitor of a given
polypeptide can be an antibody reagent speciﬁc for that
polypeptide As used herein an “antibody” refers to IgG,
IgM, IgA, IgD or IgE molecules or antigen-speciﬁc antibody
fragments thereof (including, but not limited to, a Fab,
F(ab‘)2, Fv, disulphide linked Fv, scFv, single domain anti-
body, closed conformation multispeciﬁc antibody, disul-
phide-linked scfv, diabody), whether derived from any spe-
cies that naturally produces an antibody, or created by
recombinant DNA technology; whether isolated from serum,
B-cells, hybridomas, transfectomas, yeast or bacteria.

[0168] As described herein, an “antigen” is a molecule
that is bound by a binding site on an antibody agent.
Typically, antigens are bound by antibody ligands and are
capable of raising an antibody response in vivo. An antigen
can be a polypeptide, protein, nucleic acid or other molecule
or portion thereof. The term “antigenic determinant” refers
to an epitope on the antigen recognized by an antigen-
binding molecule, and more particularly, by the antigen-
binding site of said molecule.

[0169] As used herein, the term “antibody reagent” refers
to a polypeptide that includes at least one irnmunoglobulin
variable domain or immunoglobulin variable domain
sequence and which speciﬁcally binds a given antigen. An
antibody reagent can comprise an antibody or a polypeptide
comprising an antigen-binding domain of an antibody. In
some embodiments, an antibody reagent can comprise a
monoclonal antibody or a polypeptide comprising an anti-
gen-binding domain of a monoclonal antibody. For example,
an antibody can include a heavy (H) chain variable region
(abbreviated herein as VH), and a light (L) chain variable
region (abbreviated herein as VL). In another example, an
antibody includes two heavy (H) chain variable regions and
two light (L) chain variable regions. The term “antibody
reagent” encompasses antigen-binding fragments of anti-
bodies (e.gi, single chain antibodies, Fab and sFab frag-
ments, F(ab')2, Fd fragments, Fv fragments, scFv, and
domain antibodies (dAb) fragments (see, e.g. de Wildt et al.,
Eur J. Innnunol. 1996; 26(3):629—39; which is incorporated
by reference herein in its entirety)) as well as complete
antibodies. An antibody can have the structural features of
IgA, IgG, IgE, IgD, IgM (as well as subtypes and combi-
nations thereof). Antibodies can be from any source, includ-
ing mouse, rabbit, pig, rat, and primate (human and non-
human primate) and primatized antibodies. Antibodies also
include midibodies, humanized antibodies, chimeric anti-
bodies, and the like.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0170] The VH and VL regions can be further subdivided
into regions of hypervariability, termed “complementarity
determining regions” (“CDR”), interspersed with regions
that are more conserved, termed “framework regions"
(“FR”). The extent of the framework region and CDRs has
been precisely deﬁned (see, Kabat, E. A., et a1. (1991)
Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, Fifth
Edition, US. Department of Health and Human Services,
NIH Publication No. 91-3242, and Chothia, C. et al. (1987)
J. Mol. Biol. 196:901-917; which are incorporated by ref-
erence herein in their entireties). Each VH and VL is
typically composed of three CDRs and four FRs, arranged
from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following
order: FRl, CDR], FRZ, CDRZ, FR3, CDR3, FR41

[0171] The terms “antigen-binding fragment” or “antigen-
binding domain”, which are used interchangeably herein are
used to refer to one or more fragments of a full length
antibody that retain the ability to speciﬁcally bind to a target
of interest. Examples of binding fragments encompassed
within the term “antigen-binding fragment” of a full length
antibody include (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment
consisting of the VL, VH, CL and CH] domains; (ii) a
F(ab')2 fragment, a bivalent fragment including two Fab
fragments linked by a disulﬁde bridge at the hinge region;
(iii) an Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CH1 domains;
(iv) an Fv fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains
of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a dAb fragment (Ward et
al., (1989) Nature 3411544-546; which is incorporated by
reference herein in its entirety), which consists of a VH or
VL domain; and (vi) an isolated complementarity determin-
ing region (CDR) that retains speciﬁc antigen-binding func-
tionality.

[0172] As used herein, the term “speciﬁc binding” refers
to a chemical interaction between two molecules, com-
pounds, cells and/or particles wherein the ﬁrst entity binds
to the second, target entity with greater speciﬁcity and
aﬁinity than it binds to a third entity which is a non-target.
In some embodiments, speciﬁc binding can refer to an
afﬁnity of the ﬁrst entity for the second target entity which
is at least 10 times, at least 50 times, at least 100 times, at
least 500 times, at least 1000 times or greater than the
aﬁim'ty for the third nontarget entity. A reagent speciﬁc for
a given target is one that exhibits speciﬁc binding for that
target under the conditions of the assay being utilized.
[0173] Additionally, and as described herein, a recombi-
nant humanized antibody can be further optimized to
decrease potential immunogenicity, while maintaining func-
tional activity, for therapy in humans. In this regard, func-
tional activity means a polypeptide capable of displaying
one or more known functional activities associated with a
recombinant antibody or antibody reagent thereof as
described herein. Such functional activities include, e.g. the
ability to bind to eg, NLRXl or MAVS.

[0174] As used herein, “expression level” refers to the
number of mRNA molecules and/or polypeptide molecules
encoded by a given gene that are present in a cell or sample.
Expression levels can be increased or decreased relative to
a reference level.

[0175] As used herein, the terms “treat,” “treatment,”
“treating,” or “amelioration” refer to therapeutic treatments,
wherein the object is to reverse, alleviate, ameliorate,
inhibit, slow down or stop the progression or severity of a
condition associated with a disease or disorder, e.g. COPD,
emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage.
US 2019/0030119A1
15

[0125] The measuring module can comprise any system
for detecting a signal elicited from an assay to determine the
level and/or activity of NLRXl described above herein. In
some embodiments, such systems can include an instrument,
e,g., AU2700 (Beckman Coulter Brea, Calif) as described
herein for quantitative measurement of polypeptides or e.g.,
a real time PCR machine, e.g. a LIGHTCYCLERTM
(Roche) In some embodiments, the measuring module can
measure the intensity of a detectable signal from an assay
indicating the level of NLRXI polypeptide in the test
sample. In some embodiments, the assay can be an immu-
noassay, In some embodiments, the measuring module can
measure the intensity of a detectable signal from a RT—PCR
assay indicating the level of NLRXl RNA transcript in the
test sample.

[0126] The information determined in the determination
system can be read by the storage module, As used herein the
“storage module" is intended to include any suitable com-
puting or processing apparatus or other device conﬁgured or
adapted for storing data or information Examples of elec-
tronic apparatus suitable for use with the present invention
include stand-alone computing apparatus, data teleconnnu-
nications networks, including local area networks (LAN),
wide area networks (WAN), Internet, Intranet, and Extranet,
and local and distributed computer processing systems.
Storage modules also include, but are not limited to: mag-
netic storage media, such as ﬂoppy discs, hard disc storage
media, magnetic tape, optical storage media such as CD-
ROM, DVD, electronic storage media such as RAM, ROM,
EPROM, EEPROM and the like, general hard disks and
hybrids of these categories such as magnetic/optical storage
media, The storage module is adapted or conﬁgured for
having recorded thereon, for example, sample name,
biomolecule assayed and the level of said biomoleculet Such
information may be provided in digital form that can be
transmitted and read electronically, e.g., via the Internet, on
diskette, via USB (universal serial bus) or via any other
suitable mode of communication,

[0127] As used herein, “stored” refers to a process for
encoding information on the storage module. Those skilled
in the art can readily adopt any of the presently known
methods for recording information on known media to
generate manufactures comprising expression level infor-
mation,

[0128] In some embodiments of any of the systems
described herein, the storage module stores the output data
from the determination module. In additional embodiments,
the storage module stores reference information such as
levels of NLRXI in healthy subjects and/or a population of
healthy subjects.

[0129] The “computing module” can use a variety of
available software programs and formats for computing the
level of NLRXI. Such algorithms are well established in the
art A skilled artisan is readily able to determine the appro-
priate algorithms based on the size and quality of the sample
and type of data. The data analysis tools and equations
described herein can be implemented in the computing
module of the invention, In one embodiment, the computing
module further comprises a comparison module, which
compares the level of NLRXl in a sample obtained from a
subject as described herein with the mean value of NLRXl
in a population ofhealthy subjects (FIG. 18) By way of an
example, when the value of NLRXI in a sample obtained
from a subject is measured, a comparison module can

Jan. 3], 2019

compare or match the output data with the mean value of
NLRXI in a population of healthy subjects. In certain
embodiments, the mean value of NLRXI in a population of
healthy subjects can be pre-stored in the storage module, In
various embodiments, the comparison module can be con-
ﬁgured using existing commercially-available or freely-
available software for comparison purpose, and may be
optimized for particular data comparisons that are con-
ducted.

[0130] The computing and/or comparison module, or any
other module of the invention, can include an operating
system (e.g., UNIX) on which runs a relational database
management system, a World Wide Web application, and a
World Wide Web server. World Wide Web application
includes the executable code necessary for generation of
database language statements (e.g,, Structured Query Lan-
guage (SQL) statements) Generally, the executables will
include embedded SQL statements In addition, the World
Wide Web application may include a conﬁguration ﬁle
which contains pointers and addresses to the various soft-
ware entities that comprise the server as well as the various
external and internal databases which must be accessed to
service user requests. The Conﬁguration ﬁle also directs
requests for server resources to the appropriate hardwarei
as may be necessary should the server be distributed over
two or more separate computers. In one embodiment, the
World Wide Web server supports a TCP/II’ protocol. Local
networks such as this are sometimes referred to as “Intra-
nets,” An advantage of such Intranets is that they allow easy
communication with public domain databases residing on
the World Wide Web (e.g., the GenBank or Swiss Pro World
Wide Web site) In some embodiments users can directly
access data (via Hypertext links for example) residing on
Internet databases using a HTML interface provided by Web
browsers and Web servers (FIG. 19).

[0131] The computing and/or comparison module pro-
vides a computer readable comparison result that can be
processed in computer readable form by predeﬁned criteria,
or criteria deﬁned by a user, to provide content based in part
on the comparison result that may be stored and output as
requested by a user using an output module, e,g., a display
module.

[0132] In some embodiments, the content displayed on the
display module can be the level of NLRXl in the sample
obtained from a subject, In some embodiments, the content
displayed on the display module can be the relative level of
NLRXl in the sample obtained from a subject as compared
to the mean level of NRLXl in a population of healthy
subjects. In some embodiments, if the computing module
determines that the level of NRLX] in the test sample
obtained from a subject is less by a statistically signiﬁcant
amount than the reference level, the display module displays
a signal indicating that the levels in the sample obtained
from a subject are less than those of the reference level In
some embodiments, the signal indicates the subject is in
need of treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette
smoke-induced lung damage. In some embodiments, the
signal indicates the degree to which the level of NRLXI in
the sample obtained from a subject varies from the reference
level. In some embodiments, the content displayed on the
display module can indicate whether the subject has an
increased likelihood of having or developing COPD,
emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage.
In some embodiments, the content displayed on the display
US 2019/0030119 A1

[0117] In one embodiment, provided herein is a system
comprising: (a) at least one memory containing at least one
computer program adapted to control the operation of the
computer system to implement a method that includes a
measuring module conﬁgured to measure the level of
NLRXl in a test sample obtained from a subject; a storage
module conﬁgured to store output data from the determina-
tion module; a comparison module adapted to compare the
data stored on the storage module with a reference level, and
to provide a retrieved content, and a display module for
displaying whether the sample comprises a level of NRLXl
which is signiﬁcantly decreases relative to the reference
expression level and/or displaying the relative level of
NRLXl and (b) at least one processor for executing the
computer program (see FIG. 17).

[0118] "he term “computer” can refer to any non-human
apparatus that is capable of accepting a structured input,
processing the stmctured input according to prescribed
rules, anc producing results of the processing as output,
Examples of a computer include: a computer; a general
purpose computer; a supercomputer; a mainframe; a super
mini-com auter; a mini-computer; a workstation; a micro-
computer; a server; an interactive television; a hybrid com-
bination of a computer and an interactive television; a tablet;
and application-speciﬁc hardware to emulate a computer
and/or so iware. A computer can have a single processor or
multiple processors, which can operate in parallel and/or not
in parallel, A computer also refers to two or more computers
connectec together via a network for transmitting or receiv-
ing information between the computers. An example of such
a computer includes a distributed computer system for
processing information via computers linked by a network,

 

[0119] "he term “computer-readable medium” may refer
to any storage device used for storing data accessible by a
computer, as well as any other means for providing access
to data by a computer. Examples of a storage-device—type
computer-readable medium include: a magnetic hard disk; a
ﬂoppy disk; an optical disk, such as a CD-ROM and a DVD;
a magnetic tape; a memory chip. The term a “computer
system” may refer to a system having a computer, where the
computer comprises a computer-readable medium embody-
ing software to operate the computer. The term “software” is
used interchangeably herein with “program” and refers to
prescribed rules to operate a computer. Examples of soft-
ware include: software; code segments; instructions; com-
puter programs; and programmed logici

[0120] The computer readable storage media can be any
available tangible media that can be accessed by a computer
Computer readable storage media includes volatile and
nonvolatile, removable and non-removable tangible media
implemented in any method or technology for storage of
information such as computer readable instructions, data
structures, program modules or other data. Computer read-
able storage media includes, but is not limited to, RAM
(random access memory), ROM (read only memory),
EPROM (erasable programmable read only memory),
EEPROM (electrically erasable programmable read only
memory), ﬂash memory or other memory technology, CD-
ROM (compact disc read only memory), DVDS (digital
versatile disks) or other optical storage media, magnetic
cassettes, magnetic tape, magnetic disk storage or other
magnetic storage media, other types of volatile and non-
volatile memory, and any other tangible medium which can

Jan. 3], 2019

be used to store the desired information and which can
accessed by a computer including and any suitable combi-
nation of the foregoing.

[0121] Computer-readable data embodied on one or more
computer-readable media may deﬁne instructions, for
example, as part of one or more programs that, as a result of
being executed by a computer, instruct the computer to
perform one or more of the functions described herein,
and/or various embodiments, variations and combinations
thereof. Such instructions may be written in any of a
plurality of programming languages, for example, Java, .l#,
Visual Basic, C, C#, C++, Fortran, Pascal, Eiffel, Basic,
COBOL assembly language, and the like, or any of a variety
of combinations thereof The computer-readable media on
which such instructions are embodied may reside on one or
more of the components of either of a system, or a computer
readable storage medium described herein, may be distrib-
uted across one or more of such components.

[0122] The computer-readable media may be transport-
able such that the instructions stored thereon can be loaded
onto any computer resource to implement the aspects of the
present invention discussed herein. In addition, it should be
appreciated that the instructions stored on the computer-
readable medium, described above, are not limited to
instructions embodied as part of an application program
running on a host computer. Rather, the instructions may be
embodied as any type of computer code (e.gi, software or
microcode) tiat can be employed to program a computer to
implement aspects of the present invention. The computer
executable instructions may be written in a suitable com-
puter language or combination of several languages. Basic
computational biology methods are known to those of
ordinary skil in the art and are described in, for example,
Setubal and Meidanis et all, Introduction to Computational
Biology Methods (PWS Publishing Company, Boston,
1997); Salzberg, Searles, Kasif, (Ed), Computational Meth-
ods in Molecular Biology, (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1998);
Rashidi and 3ueh1er, Bioinformatics Basics: Application in
Biological Science and Medicine (CRC Press, London,
2000) and Ouelette and Bzevanis Bioinformatics: A Practi-
cal Guide for Analysis of Gene and Proteins (Wiley & Sons,
Inc., 2nd ed., 2001),

[0123] Emaodiments of the invention can be described
through functional modules, which are deﬁned by computer
executable instructions recorded on computer readable
media and w iich cause a computer to perform method steps
when executed. The modules are segregated by function for
the sake of c arity. However, it should be understood that the
modules/systems need not correspond to discreet blocks of
code and the described functions can be carried out by the
execution of various code portions stored on various media
and executed at various times. Furthermore, it should be
appreciated that the modules can perform other functions,
thus the modules are not limited to having any particular
functions or set of functions.

[0124] The functional modules of certain embodiments of
the invention include at minimum a measuring module, a
storage module, a computing module, and a display module.
The functional modules can be executed on one, or multiple,
computers, or by using one, or multiple, computer networks.
The measuring module has computer executable instructions
to provide e.g., levels of expression products etc in computer
readable form.
US 2019/0030119 A1

ogy, structure-activity relationships and pharmacokinetics”,
Adv, Drug Delivery Rev. 39(1-3): 117-151 (1999); Taylor,
“Improved passive oral drug delivery via prodrugs”, Adv.
Drug Delivery Rev, 19(2): 131-148 (1996); Valentino and
Borchardt, “Prodrug strategies to enhance the intestinal
absorption of peptides”, Drug Discovery Today 2(4): 148-
155 (1997); \Viebe and Knaus, “Concepts for the design of
anti-HIV nucleoside prodrugs for treating cephalic HIV
infection”, Adv. Drug Delivery Rev: 39(1-3):63—80 (1999);
Waller et al., “Prodrugs”, Br. J. Clin. Pharmac. 28: 497-507
(1989), which are incorporated by reference herein in their
entireties.

[0160] In some embodiments, a polypeptide as described
herein can be a phannaceutically acceptable solvate. The
term “solvate” refers to a peptide as described herein in the
solid state, wherein molecules of a suitable solvent are
incorporated in the crystal lattice A suitable solvent for
therapeutic administration is physiologically tolerable at the
dosage administered, Examples of suitable solvents for
therapeutic administration are ethanol and water. When
water is the solvent, the solvate is referred to as a hydrate,
In general, solvates are formed by dissolving the compound
in the appropriate solvent and isolating the solvate by
cooling or using an antisolventi The solvate is typically dried
or azeotroped under ambient conditions,

[0161] The peptides of the present invention can be syn-
thesized by using well known methods including recombi-
nant methods and chemical synthesis. Recombinant methods
of producing a peptide through the introduction of a vector
including nucleic acid encoding the peptide into a suitable
host cell is well known in the art, such as is described in
Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
2d Ed, Vols 1 to 8, Cold Spring Harbor, NY. (1989); M, W,
Pennington and B. M. Dunn, Methods in Molecular Biol-
ogy: Peptide Synthesis Protocols, Vol 35, Humana Press,
Totawa, NJ (1994), contents of both of which are herein
incorporated by reference. Peptides can also be chemically
synthesized using methods well known in the art, See for
example, Merriﬁeld et al,, J, Am, Chem. Soc. 85:2149
(1964); Bodanszky, M., Principles of Peptide Synthesis,
Springer-Verlag, New York, NY. (1984); Kimmerlin, T, and
Seebach, D, J. Pept. Res. 65:229-260 (2005); Nilsson et al,,
Annu. Rev, Biophys. Biomol. Struct. (2005) 34191-118; W,
C. Chan and P. D, White (Eds) Fmoc Solid Phase Peptide
Synthesis: A Practical Approach, Oxford University Press,
Cary, NC, (2000); N, L. Benoiton, Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton, Fla, (2005); J, Jones,
Amino Acid and Peptide Synthesis, 2“ Ed, Oxford Univer-
sity Press, Cary, NC. (2002); and P Lloyd-Williams, F,
Albericio, and E. Giralt, Chemical Approaches to the syn-
thesis of peptides and proteins, CRC Press, Boca Raton, Fla,
(1997), contents of all of which are herein incorporated by
reference. Peptide derivatives can also be prepared as
described in US, Pat. Nos. 4,612,302; 4,853,371; and 4,684,
620, and US. Pat. Appi Pub. No, 2009/0263843, contents of
all which are herein incorporated by reference,

[0162] In some embodiments, the technology described
herein relates to a nucleic acid encoding a polypeptide (e.g,
a NLRXl polypeptide) as described herein. As used herein,
the term “nucleic acid” or “nucleic acid sequence” refers to
any molecule, preferably a polymeric molecule, incorporat-
ing units of ribonucleic acid, deoxyribonucleic acid or an
analog thereof, The nucleic acid can be either single-
stranded or double»stranded. A single-stranded nucleic acid

Jan. 31, 2019

can be one strand nucleic acid of a denatured double-
stranded DNA. Alternatively, it can be a single-stranded
nucleic acid not derived from any double-stranded DNA, In
one aspect, the nucleic acid is DNA, In another aspect, the
nucleic acid is RNA. Suitable nucleic acid molecules are
DNA, including genomic DNA or cDNA, Other suitable
nucleic acid molecu es are RNA, including mRNA The
nucleic acid molecule can be naturally occurring, as in
genomic DNA, or it may be synthetic, i,e., prepared based
up human action, or may be a combination of the two. The
nucleic acid molecu e can also have certain modiﬁcation
such as 2‘-deoxy, 2‘-deoxy-2'-ﬂuoro, 2'-O-methyl, 2‘-O-
methoxyethyl (2'-O-MOE), 2'-O-aminopropyl (2'-O-AP),
2'-O-dimethylaminoethyl (2'-O-DMAOE), 2‘-O-dimethyl-
aminopropyl (2'-O-DMAP), 2'-O-dimethylaminoethyloxy-
ethyl (2‘-O-DMAEO 3), or 2‘-OiN-methylacetamido (2'—O-
NMA), cholestero addition, and phosphorothioate
backbone as described in US Patent Application
20070213292; and certain ribonucleoside that are is linked
between the 2'-oxygen and the 4'-carbon atoms with a
methylene unit as escribed in U.S. Pat. No. 6,268,490,
wherein both patent and patent application are incorporated
hereby reference in their entirety.

[0163] In some embodiments, a nucleic acid encoding a
polypeptide as described herein (eg. an NLRXI polypep-
tide) is comprised y a vector. In some of the aspects
described herein, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a given
polypeptide as described herein, or any module thereof, is
operably linked to a vector. The term ‘yector”, as used
herein, refers to a nucleic acid construct designed for deliv-
ery to a host cell or for transfer between different host cells.
As used herein, a vector can be viral or non-viral. The term
“vector” encompasses any genetic element that is capable of
replication when associated with the proper control elements
and that can transfer gene sequences to cells, A vector can
include, but is not limited to, a cloning vector, an expression
vector, a plasmid, phage, u'ansposon, cosmid, chromosome,
virus, virion, etc.

[0164] As used herein, the term “expression vector” refers
to a vector that directs expression of an RNA or polypeptide
from sequences linked to transcriptional regulatory
sequences on the vector, The sequences expressed will oﬁen,
but not necessarily, be heterologous to the cell. An expres-
sion vector may comprise additional elements, for example,
the expression vector may have two replication systems,
thus allowing it to be maintained in two organisms, for
example in human cells for expression and in a prokaryotic
host for cloning and ampliﬁcation The term “expression”
refers to the cellular processes involved in producing RNA
and proteins and as appropriate, secreting proteins, including
where applicable, but not limited to, for example, transcrip-
tion, transcript processing, translation and protein folding,
modiﬁcation and processing. “Expression products" include
RNA transcribed from a gene, and polypeptides obtained by
translation of mRNA transcribed from a gene. The term
“gene” means the nucleic acid sequence which is transcribed
(DNA) to RNA in vitro or in vivo when operably linked to
appropriate regulatory sequences. The gene may or may not
include regions preceding and following the coding region.
e.g. 5' untranslated (5'UTR) or “leader” sequences and 3'
UTR or “trailer" sequences, as well as intervening sequences
(introns) between individual coding segments (exons),

[0165] As used herein, the term “viral vector” refers to a
nucleic acid vector construct that includes at least one
US 2019/0030119 A1

lation; 7) reduction in blood level ﬂuctuations; 8) improve-
ment in eﬁicacy of treatment; 9) reduction of potentiation or
loss of drug activity; and 10) improvement in speed of
control of diseases or conditions. Kim, Cherng-ju, Con-
trolled Release Dosage Form Design, 2 (Technomic Pub-
lishing, Lancaster, Pa; 2000)

[0101] Most controlled-release formulations are desigmed
to initially release an amount of drug (active ingredient) that
promptly produces the desired therapeutic elfect, and gradu-
ally and continually release other amounts of drug to main-
tain this level of therapeutic or prophylactic effect over an
extended period of time. In order to maintain this constant
level of drug in the body, the drug must be released from the
dosage form at a rate that will replace the amount of drug
being metabolized and excreted from the body, Controlled-
release of an active ingredient can be stimulated by various
conditions including, but not limited to, pH, ionic strength,
osmotic pressure, temperature, enzymes, water, and other
physiological conditions or compounds.

[0102] A variety of known controlled- or extended-release
dosage forms, formulations, and devices can be adapted for
use with the salts and compositions of the disclosure.
Examples include, but are not limited to, those described in
US. Pat, Nos. 3,845,770; 3,916,899; 3,536,809; 3,598,123;
4,008,719; 5,674,533; 5,059,595; 5,591,767; 5,120,548;
5,073,543; 5,639,476; 5,354,556; 5,733,566; and 6,365,185
B1 ; each of which is incorporated herein by reference. These
dosage forms can be used to provide slow or controlled-
relcase of one or more active ingredients using, for example,
hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, other polymer matrices,
gels, permeable membranes, osmotic systems (such as
OROS® (Alza Corporation, Mountain View, Calif. USA)),
or a combination thereof to provide the desired release
proﬁle in varying proportions.

[0103] The methods described herein can further comprise
administering a second agent and/or treatment to the subject,
e.g. as part of a combinatorial therapy. By way of non-
limiting example, if a subject is to be treated with an NLRXl
agonist according to the methods described herein, the
subject can also be administered a second agent and/or
treatment known to be beneﬁcial for subjects suffering from
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung
damage. Examples of such agents and/0r treatments include,
but are not limited to, administration of a bronchodilator;
administration of an inhaled steroid; administration of oxy-
gen therapy; bullectomy; lung volume reduction surgery;
and smoking cessation.

[0104] In certain embodiments, an elfective dose of a
composition comprising an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an
agonist of NLRXl as described herein can be administered
to a patient once. In certain embodiments, an effective dose
of a composition comprising an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an
agonist of NLRXI can be administered to a patient repeat-
edly. For systemic administration, subjects can be adminis-
tered a therapeutic amount of a composition comprising an
inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl, such as,
e,g. 0.1 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg,
5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 25 mg/kg, 30
mg/kg, 40 mg/kg, 50 mg/kg, or more,

[0105] In some embodiments, after an initial treatment
regimen, the treatments can be administered on a less
frequent basis. For example, aﬁer treatment biweekly for
three months, treatment can be repeated once per month, for
six months or a year or longer. Treatment according to the

Jan. 31, 2019

methods described herein can reduce levels of a marker or
symptom of a condition, e.g. by at least 10%, at least 15%,
at least 20%, at least 25%, at least 30%, at least 40%, at least

50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80% or at least 90%
or more,

[0106] The dosage of a composition as described herein
can be determined by a physician and adjusted, as necessary,
to suit observed elfects of the treatment. With respect to
duration and frequency of treatment, it is typical for skilled
clinicians to monitor subjects in order to determine when the
treatment is providing therapeutic beneﬁt, and to determine
whether to increase or decrease dosage, increase or decrease
administration frequency, discontinue treatment, resume
treatment, or make other alterations to the treatment regi-
men. The dosing schedule can vary from once a week to
daily depending on a number of clinical factors, such as the
subject’s sensitivity to the active ingredient. The desired
dose or amount of activation can be administered at one time
or divided into subdoses, e.g., 2-4 subdoses and adminis-
tered over a period of time, e.g., at appropriate intervals
through the day or other appropriate schedule. In some
embodiments, administration can be chronic, e.g., one or
more doses and/or treatments daily over a period of weeks
or months. Examples of dosing and/or treatment schedules
are administration daily, twice daily, three times daily or four
or more times daily over a period of 1 week, 2 weeks, 3
weeks, 4 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5
months, or 6 months, or more. A composition comprising an
inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl can be
administered over a period of time, such as over a 5 minute,
10 minute, 15 minute, 20 minute, or 25 minute period.

[0107] The dosage ranges for the administration of an
inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXI, according
to the methods described herein depend upon, for example,
the form of the inhibitor of MAVS and/0r agonist of NLRXl ,
its potency, and the extent to which symptoms, markers, or
indicators of a condition described herein are desired to be
reduced, for example the percentage reduction desired for
inﬂammation or the extent to which, for example, NLRXI
expression levels are desired to be induced. The dosage
should not be so large as to cause adverse side effects,
Generally, the dosage will vary with the age, condition, and
sex of the patient and can be determined by one of skill in
the art. The dosage can also be adjusted by the individual
physician in the event of any complication.

[0108] The eﬂicacy of an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an
agonist of NLRXl in, e.g. the treatment of a condition
described herein, or to induce a response as described herein
(e.g. NLRXI activity and/or expression) can be determined
by the skilled clinician. However, a treatment is considered
“effective treatment,” as the term is used herein, if one or
more of the signs or symptoms of a condition described
herein are altered in a beneﬁcial manner, other clinically
accepted symptoms are improved, or even ameliorated, or a
desired response is induced eg, by at least 10% following
treatment according to the methods described herein. Eﬁi-
cacy can be assessed, for example, by measuring a marker,
indicator, symptom, and/or the incidence of a condition
treated according to the methods described herein or any
other measurable parameter appropriate Efﬁcacy can also
be measured by a failure of an individual to worsen as
assessed by hospitalization, or need for medical interven-
tions (i.e., progression of the disease is halted). Methods of
measuring these indicators are known to those of skill in the
US 2019/0030119 A1

that that site can tolerate variation in a functional polypep-
tide. The variant amino acid or DNA sequence can be at least
90%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%,
at least 99%, or more, identical to a native or reference
sequence, eg. SEQ ID NOs: 2 or 4 or a nucleic acid
encoding one of those amino acid sequences, The degree of
homology (percent identity) between a native and a mutant
sequence can be determined, for example, by comparing the
two sequences using freely available computer programs
commonly employed for this purpose on the World wide
web. The variant amino acid or DNA sequence can be at
least 90%, at least 91%, at least 92%, at least 93%, at least
94%, at least 95%, at least 96%, at least 97%, at least 98%,
at least 99%, or more, similar to the sequence from which it
is derived (referred to herein as an “original” sequence), The
degree of similarity (percent similarity) between an original
and a mutant sequence can be determined, for example, by
using a similarity matrix. Similarity matrices are well known
in the art and a number of tools for comparing two sequences
using similarity matrices are freely available online, eg,
BLASTp (available on the world wide web at http://blast,
ncbi.nlm,nih,gov), with default parameters set,

[0151] A given amino acid can be replaced by a residue
having similar physiochemical characteristics, e.g,, substi-
tuting one aliphatic residue for another (such as Ile, Val. Leu,
or Ala for one another), or substitution of one polar residue
for another (such as between Lys and Arg; Glu and Asp; or
Gln and Asn), Other such conservative substitutions, erg,
substitutions of entire regions having similar hydrophobicity
characteristics, are well known. Polypeptides comprising
conservative amino acid substitutions can be tested in any
one of the assays described herein to conﬁrm that a desired
activity of a native or reference polypeptide is retained,
Conservative substitution tables providing functionally
similar amino acids are well known in the art. Such conser-
vatively modiﬁed variants are in addition to and do not
exclude polymorphic variants, interspecies homologs, and
alleles consistent with the disclosure. Typically conservative
substitutions for one another include: 1) Alanine (A), Gly-
cine (G); 2) Aspartic acid (D), Glutamic acid (E); 3) Aspara-
gine (N), Glutamine (Q); 4) Arginine (R), Lysine (K); 5)
lsoleucine (I), Leucine (L), Methionine (M), Valine (V); 6)
Phenylalanine (F), Tyrosine (Y), Tryptophan (W); 7) Serine
(S), Threonine (T); and 8) Cysteine (C), Methionine (M)
(see, e,g., Creighton, Proteins (1984)),

[0152] Any cysteine residue not involved in maintaining
the proper conformation of the polypeptide also can be
substituted, generally with serine, to improve the oxidative
stability of the molecule and prevent aberrant crosslinking,
Conversely, cysteine bond(s) can be added to the polypep-
tide to improve its stability or facilitate oligomerization.

[0153] In some embodiments, a polypeptide, erg, a
NLRXI polypeptide, administered to a subject can comprise
one or more amino acid substitutions or modiﬁcations. In
some embodiments, the substitutions and/or modiﬁcations
can prevent or reduce proteolytic degradation and/ or prolong
half-life of the polypeptide in the subject. In some embodi-
ments, a polypeptide can be modiﬁed by conjugating or
fusing it to other polypeptide or polypeptide domains such
as, by way of non-limiting example, transferrin
(WOO6096515A2), albumin (Yeh et al,, 1992), growth hor-
mone (U S2003104578AA); cellulose (Levy and Shoseyov,
2002); and/or Fc fragments (Ashkenazi and Chamow, 1997),

Jan. 31, 2019

The references in the foregoing paragraph are incorporated
by reference herein in their entireties.

[0154] In some embodiments, a polypeptide, e.g,, an
NLRXl polypeptide, as described herein can comprise at
least one peptide bond replacement, A single peptide bond or
multiple peptide bonds, eg. 2 bonds, 3 bonds, 4 bonds, 5
bonds, or 6 or more bonds, or all the peptide bonds can be
replaced, An isolated peptide as described herein can com-
prise one type of peptide bond replacement or multiple types
of peptide bond replacements, eg, 2 types, 3 types, 4 types,
5 types, or more types of peptide bond replacements, Non-
limiting examples of peptide bond replacements include
urea, thiourea, carbamate, sulfonyl urea, triﬁuoroethylam-
ine, ortho-(aminoalkyl)-phenylacetic acid, para-(amino-
alkyl)-phenylacetic acid, meta-(aminoalkyl)-phenylacetic
acid, tbioamide, tetrazole, boronic ester, oleﬁnic group, and
derivatives thereof

[0155] In some embodiments, a polypeptide, e.g., a
NLRXl polypeptide, as described herein can comprise natu-
rally occurring amino acids commonly found in polypep-
tides and/or proteins produced by living organisms, eg, Ala
(A), v31 (V), Len (L), He (1), Pro (P), Phe (F), Trp (W), Met
(M). Gly (G), Ser (S), m (T), Cys (C), Tyr (Y), Asn (N),
Gln (Q), Asp (D), Glu (E), Lys (K), Arg (R), and His (H), In
some embodiments, an NLRXl polypeptide as described
herein can comprise alternative amino acids, Non-limiting
examples of alternative amino acids include, D-amino acids;
beta-amino acids; homocysteine, phosphoserine, phospho-
threonine, phosphotyrosine, hydroxyproline, gamma-car-
boxyglutamate; hippuric acid, octahydroindole-2-carboxylic
acid, statine, l,2,3,4,-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic
acid, penicillamine (3-mercapto-D-valine), ornithine, citrul-
ine, alpha-methyl-alanine, para-benzoylphenylalanine, para-
amino phenylalanine, p-ﬂuorophenylalanine, phenylglycine,
propargylglycine, sarcosine, and tert-butylglycine), diamin-
obutyric acid, 7-hyd.roxy-tetrahyd.roisoquinoline carboxylic
acid, naphthylalanine, biphenylalanine, cyclohexylalanine,
amino-isobutyric acid, norvaline, norleucine, ten-leucine,
tetrahydroisoquinoline carboxylic acid, pipecolic acid, phe-
nylglycine, homophenylalanine, cyclohexylglycine, dehy-
droleucine, 2,2-diethylglycine, 1-amin0-1-cyclopentanecar-
boxylic acid, 1-amino-1-cyclohexanecarboxylic acid,
amino-benzoic acid, amino-naphthoic acid, gamma-amin-
obutyric acid, diﬂuorophenylalanine, nipecotic acid, alpha-
amino butyric acid, thienyl-alanine, t-butylglycine, triﬂuo-
rovaline; hexaﬂuoroleucine; ﬂuorinated analogs; azide-
modiﬁed amino acids; alkyne-modiﬁed amino acids; cyano-
modiﬁed amino acids; and derivatives thereof

[0156] In some embodiments, a polypeptide, e.g. a
NLRXl polypeptide, can be modiﬁed, e.g. by addition of a
moiety to one or more of the amino acids comprising the
peptide. In some embodiments, a polypeptide as described
herein can comprise one or more moiety molecules, e,g, l or
more moiety molecules per peptide, 2 or more moiety
molecules per peptide, 5 or more moiety molecules per
peptide, 10 or more moiety molecules per peptide or more
moiety molecules per peptide, In some embodiments, a
polypeptide as described herein can comprise one more
types of modiﬁcations and/or moieties, eg. 1 type of modi-
ﬁcation, 2 types of modiﬁcations, 3 types of modiﬁcations or
more types of modiﬁcations. Non-limiting examples of
modiﬁcations and/or moieties include PEGylation; glycosy-
lation; HESylation; ELPylation; lipidation; acetylation; ami-
dation; end-capping modiﬁcations; cyano groups; phospho-
US 2019/0030119 A1

its antigen. For the methods and assays described herein,
speciﬁc binding of the target polypeptides with respective
proteins or protein fragments, or an isolated peptide, or a
fusion protein described herein occurs in the immunoassay
to form a target protein/peptide complex. The complex is
then detected by a variety of methods known in the art. An
immunoassay also often involves the use of a detection
antibody.

[0056] Enzyme-linked imrnunosorbent assay, also called
ELISA, enzyme immunoassay or EIA, is a biochemical
technique used mainly in immunology to detect the presence
of an antibody or an antigen in a sample. The ELISA has
been used as a diagnostic tool in medicine and plant pathol-
ogy, as well as a quality control check in various industries.

[0057] In one embodiment, an ELISA involving at least
one antibody with speciﬁcity for the particular desired
antigen (e.g., NLRX] as described herein) can also be
performed. A known amount of sample and/or antigen is
immobilized on a solid support (usually a polystyrene micro
titer plate). Immobilization can be either non-speciﬁc (e.g.,
by adsorption to the surface) or speciﬁc (eg. where another
antibody immobilized on the surface is used to capture
antigen or a primary antibody). After the antigen is innno-
bilized, the detection antibody is added, fomiing a complex
with the antigen. The detection antibody can be covalently
linked to an enzyme, or can itself be detected by a secondary
antibody which is linked to an enzyme through bio-conju-
gation. Between each step the plate is typically washed with
a mild detergent solution to remove any proteins or anti-
bodies that are not speciﬁcally bound. After the ﬁnal wash
step the plate is developed by adding an enzymatic substrate
to produce a visible signal, which indicates the quantity of
antigen in the sample. Older ELISAs utilize chromogenic
substrates, though newer assays employ ﬂuorogenic sub-
strates with much higher sensitivity.

[0058] In another embodiment, a competitive ELISA is
used. Puriﬁed antibodies that are directed against a target
polypeptide or fragment thereof are coated on the solid
phase of multi-well plate, i.e., conjugated to a solid surface.
A second batch of puriﬁed antibodies that are not conjugated
on any solid support is also needed. These non-conjugated
puriﬁed antibodies are labeled for detection purposes, for
example, labeled with horseradish peroxidase to produce a
detectable signal. A sample (e.g., a blood sample) from a
subject is mixed with a known amount of desired antigen
(eg, a known volume or concentration of a sample com-
prising a target polypeptide) together with the horseradish
peroxidase labeled antibodies and the mixture is then are
added to coated wells to form competitive combination.
After incubation, if the polypeptide level is high in the
sample, a complex of labeled antibody reagent-antigen will
form. This complex is free in solution and can be washed
away. Washing the wells will remove the complex. Then the
wells are incubated with TMB (3, 3', 5, 5‘-tetramethylben-
zidene) color development substrate for localization of
horseradish peroxidase-conjugated antibodies in the wells.
There will be no color change or little color change if the
target polypeptide level is high in the sample. If there is little
or no target polypeptide present in the sample, a different
complex in formed, the complex of solid support bound
antibody reagents-target polypeptide. This complex is
immobilized on the plate and is not washed away in the wash
step. Subsequent incubation with TMB will produce much

Jan. 31, 2019

color change. Such a competitive ELSA test is speciﬁc,
sensitive, reproducible and easy to operate.

[0059] There are other different forms of ELISA, which
are well known to those skilled in the art. The standard
techniques known in the art for ELISA are described in
“Methods in Immunodiagnosis”, 2nd Edition, Rose and
Bigazzi, eds. John Wiley & Sons, 1980; and Oellerich, M.
1984, J. Clin. Chem. Clin. Biochem. 22:895-904. These
references are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entirety.

[0060] In one embodiment, the levels of a polypeptide in
a sample can be detected by a lateral ﬂow immunoassay test
(LFIA), also known as the immunochromatographic assay,
or strip test. LFIAs are a simple device intended to detect the
presence (or absence) of antigen, e.g. a polypeptide, in a
ﬂuid sample. There are currently many LFIA tests are used
for medical diagnostics either for home testing, point of care
testing, or laboratory use. LFIA tests are a form of immu-
noassay in which the test sample ﬂows along a solid sub-
strate via capillary action. After the sample is applied to the
test strip it encounters a colored reagent (generally compris-
ing antibody speciﬁc for the test target antigen) bound to
microparticles which mixes with the sample and transits the
substrate encountering lines or zones which have been
pretreated with another antibody or antigen. Depending
upon the level of target polypeptides present in the sample
the colored reagent can be captured and become bound at the
test line or zone LFIAs are essentially immunoassays
adapted to operate along a single axis to suit the test strip
format or a dipstick format. Strip tests are extremely versa-
tile and can be easily modiﬁed by one skilled in the art for
detecting an enormous range of antigens from ﬂuid samples
such as urine, blood, water, and/or homogenized tissue
samples etc. Strip tests are also known as dip stick test, the
name bearing from the literal action of “dipping” the test
strip into a ﬂuid sample to be tested. LFIA strip tests are easy
to use, require minimum training and can easily be included
as components of point-of—care test (POCT) diagnostics to
be use on site in the ﬁeld. LFIA tests can be operated as
either competitive or sandwich assays. Sandwich LFIAs are
similar to sandwich ELISA. The sample ﬁrst encounters
colored particles which are labeled with antibodies raised to
the target antigen. The test line will also contain antibodies
to the same target, although it may bind to a diiferent epitope
on the antigen. The test line will show as a colored band in
positive samples. In some embodiments, the lateral ﬂow
immunoassay can be a double antibody sandwich assay, a
competitive assay, a quantitative assay or variations thereof.
Competitive LFIAs are similar to competitive ELISA. The
sample ﬁrst encounters colored particles which are labeled
with the target antigen or an analogue. The test line contains
antibodies to the target/its analogue. Unlabelled antigen in
the sample will block the binding sites on the antibodies
preventing uptake of the colored particles. The test line will
show as a colored band in negative samples. There are a
number of variations on lateral ﬂow technology. It is also
possible to apply multiple capture zones to create a multi-
plex test.

[0061] The use of “dip sticks" or LFIAtest strips and other
solid supports have been described in the art in the context
of an immunoassay for a number of antigen biomarkers.
US. Pat. Nos. 4,943,522; 6,485,982; 6,187,598; 5,770,460;
5,622,871; 6,565,808, US patent application Ser. No.
10/278,676; US. Ser. No. 09/579,673 and US. Ser. No.
US 2019/0030119 A1

10/717,082, which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety, are non-limiting examples of such lateral ﬂow
test devices. Examples of patents that describe the use of
“dip stick” technology to detect soluble antigens via immu-
nochemical assays include. but are not limited to US. Pat.
Nos. 4,444,880; 4,305,924; and 4,135,884; which are incor-
porated by reference herein in their entireties. The appara-
tuses and methods of these three patents broadly describe a
ﬁrst component ﬁxed to a solid surface on a “dip stic ”
which is exposed to a solution containing a soluble antigen
that binds to the component ﬁxed upon the “dip stick," prior
to detection of the component-antigen complex upon tie
stick. It is within the skill of one in the art to modify tie
teachings of this “dip stick” technology for the detection of
polypeptides using antibody reagents as described herein.

[0062] Other techniques can be used to detect the level of
a polypeptide in a sample. One such technique is the cot
blot, and adaptation of Western blotting (Towbin et at., Proc.
Nat. Acad. Sci. 7624350 (1979)), In a Western blot, tie
polypeptide or fragment thereof can be dissociated with
detergents and heat, and separated on an SDS-PAGE gel
before being transferred to a solid support, such as a
nitrocellu ose or PVDF membrane. The membrane is incu-
bated with an antibody reagent speciﬁc for the target po y-
peptide or a fragment thereof. The membrane is then washed
to remove unbound proteins and proteins with non-speciﬁc
binding. )etectably labeled enzyme-linked secondary or
detection antibodies can then be used to detect and assess tie
amount 0 polypeptide in the sample tested. The intensity of
the signal from the detectable label corresponds to tie
amount of enzyme present, and therefore the amount of
polypeptide. Levels can be quantiﬁed, for example by den-
sitometry,
[0063] n some embodiments, the level of, e.g., NLRXl,
can be measured, by way of non-limiting example, 3y
Westem lot; immunoprecipitation; enzyme-linked immu-
nosorbent assay (ELISA); radioimmunological assay (MA);
sandwich assay; ﬂuorescence in situ hybridization (FISH);
irnmunohistological staining; radioimmunometric assay;
immunoﬂuoresence assay; mass spectroscopy and/or immu-
noelectro horesis assay.

[0064] 11 certain embodiments, the gene expression prod-
ucts as described herein can be instead determined by
determining the level of messenger RNA (mRNA) expres-
sion of the genes described herein, e.g. NLRXl. Such
molecules can be isolated. derived, or ampliﬁed from a
biologica sample, such as a blood sample, Techniques for
the detection of mRNA expression is known by persons
skilled in the art, and can include but not limited to, PCR
procedures, RT—PCR, quantitative RT-PCR Northern blot
analysis, differential gene expression, RNA protection assay,
microarray based analysis, next-generation sequencing;
hybridization methods, etc,

[0065] In general, the PCR procedure describes a method
of gene ampliﬁcation which is comprised of (i) sequence-
speciﬁc hybridization of primers to speciﬁc genes or
sequences within a nucleic acid sample or library, (ii)
subsequent ampliﬁcation involving multiple rounds of
annealing, elongation, and denaturation using a thermo-
stable DNA polymerase, and (iii) screening the PCR prod-
ucts for a band of the correct size. The primers used are
oligonucleotides of sufﬁcient length and appropriate
sequence to provide initiation of polymerization, i.e. each
primer is speciﬁcally designed to be complementary to a

 

 

Jan. 31, 2019

strand of the genomic locus to be ampliﬁed. In an alternative
embodiment, mRNA level of gene expression products
described herein can be determined by reverse-transcription
(RT) PCR and by quantitative RT-PCR (QRT-PCR) or
real-time PCR methods. Methods of RT-PCR and QRT—PCR
are well known in the art.

[0066] In some embodiments, the level of an mRNA can
be measured by a quantitative sequencing technology, e.g. a
quantitative next-generation sequence technology. Methods
of sequencing a nucleic acid sequence are well known in the
art. Brieﬂy, a sample obtained from a subject can be con-
tacted with one or more primers which speciﬁcally hybridize
to a single-strand nucleic acid sequence ﬂanking the target
gene sequence and a complementary strand is synthesized.
In some next-generation technologies, an adaptor (double or
single-stranded) is ligated to nucleic acid molecules in the
sample and synthesis proceeds from the adaptor or adaptor
compatible primers. In some third-generation technologies,
the sequence can be determined, e.g. by determining the
location and pattern of the hybridization of probes, or
measuring one or more characteristics of a single molecule
as it passes through a sensor (e.g. the modulation of an
electrical ﬁeld as a nucleic acid molecule passes through a
nanopore). Exemplary methods of sequencing include, but
are not limited to, Sanger sequencing, dideoxy chain termi-
nation, high-throughput sequencing, next generation
sequencing, 454 sequencing, SOLiD sequencing, polony
sequencing, Illumina sequencing, Ion Torrent sequencing,
sequencing by hybridization, nanopore sequencing, Helio-
scope sequencing, single molecule real time sequencing,
RNAP sequencing, and the like. Methods and protocols for
performing these sequencing methods are known in the art,
see, e.g, “Next Generation Genome Sequencing” Ed. Michal
.Ianitz, Wiley-VCH; “High-Throughput Next Generation
Sequencing” Eds. Kwon and Ricke, Humanna Press, 2011;
and Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
Manual (4 ed.), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold
Spring Harbor, N.Y., USA (2012); which are incorporated by
reference herein in their entireties.

[0067] The nucleic acid sequences of the genes described
herein, e,g., NLRXI, have been assigned NCBI accession
numbers for different species such as human, mouse and rat.
For example, the human NRLXl mRNA (e.g. SEQ ID NO:
1) is known. Accordingly, a skilled artisan can design an
appropriate primer based on the known sequence for deter-
mining the mRNA level of the respective gene,

[0068] Nucleic acid and ribonucleic acid (RNA) mol-
ecules can be isolated from a particular biological sample
using any of a number of procedures, which are well-known
in the art, the particular isolation procedure chosen being
appropriate for the particular biological sample. For
example, freeze-thaw and alkaline lysis procedures can be
useful for obtaining nucleic acid molecules from solid
materials; heat and alkaline lysis procedures can be useful
for obtaining nucleic acid molecules from urine; and pro-
teinase K extraction can be used to obtain nucleic acid from
blood (Roiff, A et 31. PCR: Clinical Diagnostics and
Research, Springer (1994)).

[0069] In some embodiments, one or more of the reagents
(e,g. an antibody reagent and/or nucleic acid probe)
described herein can comprise a detectable label and/or
comprise the ability to generate a detectable signal (e.g, by
catalyzing reaction converting a compound to a detectable
product). Detectable labels can comprise, for example, a
US 2019/0030119 A1

rylation; albumin, and cyclization. In some embodiments, an
end-capping modiﬁcation can comprise acetylation at the
N-terminus, N-tenninal acylation, and N-terminal formy-
lation. In some embodiments, an end-capping modiﬁcation
can comprise amidation at the C-terminus, introduction of
C-terminal alcohol, aldehyde, ester, and thioester moieties:
The half-life of a polypeptide can be increased by the
addition of moieties, eg. PEG or albumin:

[0157] In some embodiments, the polypeptide adminis-
tered to the subject (or a nucleic acid encoding such a
polypeptide) can be a functional fragment of one of the
amino acid sequences described herein. As used herein, a
“functional fragment” is a fragment or segment of a peptide
which retains at last 50% of the wildtype reference poly-
peptide’s activity according to the assays described below
herein. A functional fragment can comprise conservative
substitutions of the sequences disclosed herein:

[0158] Alterations of the original amino acid sequence can
be accomplished by any of a number of techniques known
to one of skill in the art. Mutations can be introduced, for
example, at particular loci by synthesizing oligonucleotides
containing a mutant sequence, ﬂanked by restriction sites
permitting ligation to fragments of the native sequence:
Following ligation, the resulting reconstructed sequence
encodes an analog having the desired amino acid insertion,
substitution, or deletion. Altematively, oligonucleotide-di-
rected site-speciﬁc mutagenesis procedures can be
employed to provide an altered nucleotide sequence having
particular codons altered according to the substitution, dele-
tion, or insertion required: Techniques for making such
alterations include those disclosed by Walder et a]. (Gene
42:133, 1986); Bauer et a]. (Gene 37:73, 1985); Craik
(BioTechniques, January 1985, 12-19); Smith et al. (Genetic
Engineering: Principles and Methods, Plenum Press, 1981);
and US. Pat. Nos. 4,518,584 and 4,737,462, which are
herein incorporated by reference in their entireties: In some
embodiments, a polypeptide as described herein can be
chemically synthesized and mutations can be incorporated
as part of the chemical synthesis process.

[0159] In some embodiments, a polypeptide, e.g., a
NLRX1 polypeptide, as described herein can be formulated
as a pharmaceutically acceptable prodrug: As used herein, a
“prodrug” refers to compounds that can be converted via
some chemical or physiological process (e:g., enzymatic
processes and metabolic hydrolysis) to a therapeutic agent:
Thus, the term “prodrug” also refers to a precursor of a
biologically active compound that is pharmaceutically
acceptable. A prodrug may be inactive when administered to
a subject, i:e. an ester, but is converted in vivo to an active
compound, for example, by hydrolysis to the free carboxylic
acid or free hydroxyl. The prodrug compound often offers
advantages of solubility, tissue compatibility or delayed
release in an organism: The term “prodrug” is also meant to
include any covalently bonded carriers, which release the
active compound in vivo when such prodrug is administered
to a subject. Prodrugs of an active compound may be
prepared by modifying functional groups present in the
active compound in such a way that the modiﬁcations are
cleaved, either in routine manipulation or in vivo, to the
parent active compound. Prodrugs include compounds
wherein a hydroxy, amino or mercapto group is bonded to
any group that, when the prodrug of the active compound is
administered to a subject, cleaves to form a free hydroxy,
free amino or free mercapto group, respectively. Examples

Jan. 31, 2019

of prodrugs include, but are not limited to, acetate, formate
and benzoate derivatives of an alcohol or acetamide, for-
mamide and benzamide derivatives of an amine functional
group in the active compound and the like. See Harper,
“Drug Latentiation” in Jucker, ed. Progress in Drug
Research 4:221-294 (1962); Morozowich et a1, “Application
of Physical Organic Principles to Prodrug Design” in E. B.
Roche ed. Design of Biopharmaceutica/ Properties through
Prodrugs andAnalogs, APHAAcad. Pharm: Sci: 40 (1977);
Bioreversib/e Carriers in Drug in Drug Design, Theory and
Application, E. B. Roche, ed., APHA Acad: Pharm. Sci.
(1987); Design ofProdrugs, H. Bundgaard, Elsevier (1985);
Wang et a1. “Prodrug approaches to the improved delivery of
peptide drug” in Curr Pharm. Design: 5(4):265-287 (1999);
Pauletti et a1: (1997) Improvement in peptide bioavailability:
Peptidomimetics and Prodrug Strategies, Adv. Drug: Deliv-
ery Rev. 27:235-256; Mizen et a1. (1998) “The Use of Esters
as Prodrugs for Oral Delivery of B-Lactam antibiotics,"
Pharm: Biotech. 11:345-365; Gaignault et a1. (1996)
“Designing Prodrugs and Bioprecursors 1: Carrier Prod-
rugs,” Pmct: Med: Chem. 671-696; Asgharnej ad, “Improv-
ing Oral Drug Transport”, in Transport Processes in Phar-
maceutical Systems, G. L: Amidon, P. I. Lee and E. M. Topp,
Eds., Marcell Dekker, p. 185-218 (2000); Balant et al.,
“Prodnigs for the improvement of drug absorption via
different routes of administration”, Eur. J. Drug Metal):
Pharmacokinet:, 15(2): 143-53 (1990); Balimane and Sinko,
“Involvement of multiple transporters in the oral absorption
of nucleoside analogues”, Adv Drug Delivery Rev, 39(1-3):
183-209 (1999); Browne, “Fosphenytoin (Cerebyx)”, Clin:
Neuropharmacol. 20(1): 1-12 (1997); Bundgaard, “Bior-
eversible derivatization of drugsiprinciple and applicabil-
ity to improve the therapeutic effects of drugs”, Arch:
Pharm: Chemi 86(1): 1-39 (1979); Bundgaard H: “Improved
drug delivery by the prodrug approac ”, Controlled Drug
Delivery 17: 179-96 (1987); Bundgaard H: “Prodrugs as a
means to improve the delivery of peptide drugs”, Arfv. Drug
Delivery Rev. 8(1): 1-38 (1992); Fleisher et al: “Improved
oral drug delivery: solubility limitations overcome by the
use of prodrugs", Arfv. Drug Delivery Rev 19(2): 115-130
(1996); Fleisher et a], “Design of prodrugs for improved
gastrointestinal absorption by intestinal enzyme targeting”,
Methods Enzymol: 112 (Drug Enzyme Targeting, Pt. A):
360-81, (1985); Farquhar D, et a1:, “Biologically Reversible
Phosphate-Protective Groups”, Pharm. Sci, 72(3): 324-325
(1983); Freeman S, et al., “Bioreversible Protection for the
Phospho Group: Chemical Stability and Bioactivation of
Di(4-acetoxy-benzyl) Methylphosphonate with Carboxyes-
terase,” Chem. Soc, Chem. Commun., 875-877 (1991); Friis
and Bundgaard, “Prodrugs of phosphates and phosphonates:
Novel lipophilic alphaacyloxyalkyl ester derivatives of
phosphate— or phosphonate containing drugs masking the
negative charges of these groups”, Eur: J: Pharm. Sci: 4:
49-59 (1996); Gangwar et al., “Pro-drug, molecular struc-
ture and percutaneous delivery”, Des: Biopharm, Prop:
Prodrugs Analogs, [Symp.] Meeting Date 1976, 409-21.
(1977); Nathwani and Wood, “Penicillins: a current review
of their clinical pharmacology and therapeutic use”, Drugs
45(6): 866-94 (1993); Sinhababu and Thakker, “Prodmgs of
anticancer agents”, Adv Drug Delivery Rev 19(2): 241 -273
(1996); Stella et al:, “Prodrugs: Do they have advantages in
clinical practice?”, Drugs 29(5): 455-73 (1985); Tan et al.
“Development and optimization of anti-HIV nucleoside
analogs and prodrugs: A review of their cellular pharmacol-
US 2019/0030119 A1

art and/or are described herein. Treatment includes any
treatment of a disease in an individual or an animal (some
non-limiting examples include a human or an animal) and
includes: (1) inhibiting the disease, e.g., preventing a wors-
ening of symptoms (e.g. pain or inﬂammation); or (2)
relieving the severity of the disease, e.g., causing regression
of symptoms, An effective amount for the treatment of a
disease means that amount which, when administered to a
subject in need thereof, is sufﬁcient to result in eifective
treatment as that term is deﬁned herein, for that disease,
Efﬁcacy of an agent can be determined by assessing physical
indicators of a condition or desired response. (e.g. NLRXl
activity and/or expression), It is well within the ability of
one skilled in the art to monitor eﬂicacy of administration
and/or treatment by measuring any one of such parameters,
or any combination of parameters. Efﬁcacy can be assessed
in animal models of a condition described herein, for
example treatment of emphysema and/or COPD. When
using an experimental animal model, eﬂicacy of treatment is
evidenced when a statistically signiﬁcant change in a marker
is observed, e.g. lung volume, surface area, and/or chord
length

[0109] In vitro and animal model assays are rovided
herein which allow the assessment of a given dose of
inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl. By way of
non-limiting example, the eifects of a dose of inhibitor of
MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXI can be assessed by
measuring the levels of expression of CXCL13, MMP-IZ,
cathepsisn K, cathepsin S, type 1 IFNs, caspase , IL-IB,
and/or IL-1 8, where increased NLRXl levels and/or activity
results in decreased levels of CXCL13, MMP-12, cathepsisn
K, cathepsin S, type 1 IFNs, caspase 1, IL-1B, and/orIL-18
and where decreased MAVS levels and/or activity results in
decreased levels of CXCL13, MMP-12, cathepsisn {, cathe-
psin S, type 1 IFNs, caspase 1, IL-lB, and/or IL- 8.

[0110] The eﬁicacy of a given dosage combination can
also be assessed in an animal model, e.g. a mouse model of
cigarette smoke-induced lung damage. For exam le, mice
can be exposed to cigarette smoke and a therapeutic agent or
control intranasally. Lung tissue can be harvested at the
desired time point and mean chord length and the surface
area of the lungs determined following stereologica analysis
of the lungs according to the AT S/ERS guidelines. Brieﬂy,
the leﬂ lung can be inﬂated with 0.5% low temperature-
melting agarose in 10% buffered formalin ﬁxative at a
constant pressure of 25 cm, Afther the ﬁxation, lung volume
(VL) of the leﬂ lung was determined by the water immersion
method. Images can be taken equally spaced and system-
atically placed meander-like over the whole surface of the
lung sections, Pictures can be quantitatively analyzed by
using a test system of points and lines superimposed over the
digital images via the STEPanizerTM program, The inter-
secting points falling on alveolar space (Pa), alveolar ducts
(Pd), and points falling on septum (Ps) can be counted
separately among total points (Ptotal). Point counts yielded
relative volume densities and alveolar surface area (S) can
be calculated by the following formula; (1)Airspace fraction
(FA):(Pa+Pd+Ps)/Ptotal; (2) Airspace volume (VA):FA><
VL; (3) SﬂlVA/Lm (mean linear intercept),

[0111] In one aspect, described herein is a kit for perform-
ing any of the assays and/or methods described herein, In
some embodiments, the kit can comprise a NLRXI -speciﬁc
reagent.

 

Jan. 31, 2019

[0112] A kit is any manufacture (e.gi, a package or con-
tainer) comprising at least one reagent, e.g., an antibody
reagent(s) or nucleic acid probe, for speciﬁcally detecting,
e.g., a NLRXl expression product or fragment thereof, the
manufacture being promoted, distributed, or sold as a unit
for performing the methods or assays described herein.
When the kits, and methods described herein are used for
diagnosis and/or treatment of COPD, emphysema, and/or
cigarette-induced lung damage in patients, the reagents (e.g.,
detection probes) or systems can be selected such that a
positive result is obtained in at least about 20%, at least
about 40%, at least about 60%, at least about 80%, at least
about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 99% or in
100% of subjects having or developing COPD, emphysema,
and/or cigarette-induced lung damage.

[0113] In some embodiments, described herein is a kit for
the detection of a NLRXl expression product in a sample,
the kit comprising at least a ﬁrst NLRXl-speciﬁc reagent as
described herein which speciﬁcally binds the NLRX]
expression product, on a solid support and comprising a
detectable label. The kits described herein include reagents
and/or components that permit assaying the level of an
expression product in a sample obtained from a subject (eg,
a biological sample obtained from a subject). The kits
described herein can optionally comprise additional com-
ponents useful for performing the methods and assays
described herein.

[0114] A kit can further comprise devices and/or reagents
for concentrating an expression product (e.g, a polypeptide)
in a sample, e.g. a plasma sample. Thus, ultraﬁltration
devices permitting, e.g., protein concentration from plasma
can also be included as a kit component,

[0115] Preferably, a diagnostic or prognostic kit for use
with the methods and assays disclosed herein contains
detection reagents for NLRXl expression products, Such
detection reagents comprise in addition to NLRXl-speciﬂc
reagents, for example, buifer solutions, labels or washing
liquids etc. Furthermore, the kit can comprise an amount of
a known nucleic acid and/or polypeptide, which can be used
for a calibration of the kit or as an internal control, A
diagnostic kit for the detection of an expression product can
also comprise accessory ingredients like secondary afﬁnity
ligands, e.gi, secondary antibodies, detection dyes and any
other suitable compound or liquid necessary for the perfor-
mance of a expression product detection method known to
the person skilled in the art, Such ingredients are known to
the person skilled in the art and may vary depending on the
detection method carried out, Additionally, the kit may
comprise an instruction leaﬂet and/or may provide informa-
tion as to the relevance of the obtained results

[0116] In some aspects, the invention described herein is
directed to systems (and computer readable media for caus-
ing computer systems) for obtaining data from at least one
sample obtained from at least one subject, the system
comprising 1) a measuring module conﬁgured to receive the
at least one sample and perform at least one analysis on the
at least one sample to determine the level and/or activity of
NLRXl in the sample; 2) a storage device conﬁgured to
store data output from the determination module; and 3) a
display module for displaying a content based in part on the
data output from the determination module, wherein the
content comprises a signal indicative of the level and/or
activity of NRLXI,
US 2019/0030119 A1

untreated or pretreated (or pre-processed) biological
samp es. In some embodiments, a test sample can comprise
cells from subject. In some em odiments, the test sample
can be a lung biopsy; bronchoa veolar lavage (BAL); spu-
tum; induced sputum; blood; plasma; and serum.

[0077] The test sample can be obtained by removing a
samp e from a subject, but can also be accomplished by
using previously sample (e.g. isolated at a prior timepoint
and isolated by the same or anot Jer person). In addition, the
test sample can be freshly collected or a previously collected
samp e

[0078] In some embodiments, the test sample can be an
untreated test sample, As used herein, the phrase “untreated
test sample” refers to a test samp e that has not had any prior
samp e pre-treatment except for dilution and/or suspension
in a solution, Exemplary methocs for treating a test sample
incluc e, but are not limited to, centrifugatiom ﬁltration,
sonication, homogenization, heating, freezing and thawing,
and combinations thereof. In some embodiments, the test
samp e can be a frozen test samp e, e.g., a frozen tissue. The
frozen sample can be thawed before employing methods,
assays and systems described herein. After thawing, a frozen
samp e can be centrifuged before being subjected to meth-
ods, assays and systems described herein, In some embodi-
ments, the test sample is a clariﬁed test sample, for example,
by centrifugation and collection of a supernatant comprising
the c ariﬁed test sample. In some embodiments, a test
samp e can be a pre-processed test sample, for example,
supernatant or ﬁltrate resulting from a treatment selected
from the group consisting of centrifugation, ﬁltration, thaw-
ing, puriﬁcation, and any combinations thereof. In some
embodiments, the test sample can be treated with a chemical
and/or biological reagenti Chemical and/or biological
reagents can be employed to protect and/or maintain the
stability of the sample, including biomolecules (e.g., nucleic
acid and protein) therein, during processing. One exemplary
reagent is a protease inhibitor, which is generally used to
protect or maintain the stability of protein during processing.
The skilled artisan is well aware of methods and processes
appropriate for pre-processing of biological samples
required for determination of the level of an expression
product as described herein,

[0079] In some embodiments, the methods, assays, and
systems described herein can further comprise a step of
obtaining a test sample from a subject. In some embodi-
ments, the subject can be a human subject, In some embodi-
ments, the subject can be a subject in need of treatment for
(e.g. having or diagnosed as having) COPD, emphysema,
and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage

 

 

[0080] In one aspect, described herein is a method of
determining the eﬂicacy of a treatment for COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage, the method
comprising: (a) measuring the level of NLRXI in a test
sample obtained from a subject before administration of the
treatment; (b) measuring the level of NLRXI in a test
sample obtained from a subject after administration of the
treatment; (c) determining that the treatment is eﬂicacious
when the expression level determined in step (b) is not
decreased relative to the expression level determined in step
(a); and (d) determining that the treatment is not efﬁcacious
when the expression level determined in step (b) is
decreased relative to the expression level determined in step

(a)

Jan. 3], 2019

[0081] In one aspect, described herein is a method of
treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced
lung damage comprising; measuring the level of NLRXI in
a test sample obtained from a subject; treating the subject
when the level of NLRXl is decreased relative to a reference
level. In one aspect, described herein is a method of treat-
ment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette—induced lung
damage comprising; treating a subject determined to have a
level of NLRXI which is decreased relative to a reference
level. Treatments for COPD, emphysema, and cigarette
smoke-induced lung damage are known in the art and can
include, by way of non-limiting example administration of
a bronchodilator; administration of an inhaled steroid;
administration of oxygen therapy; bullectomy; lung volume
reduction surgery; smoking cessation; and lung transplant.
In some emboidments, a treatment for COPD, emphysema,
and/or cigarette smoke-induced lung damage can include
administration of an inhibitor of MAVS; administration of
an agonist of NLRXl; administration of a nucleic acid
encoding NLRXl; and/or administration of an NLRXI
polypeptide.

[0082] In some embodiments, the methods described
herein relate to treating a subject having or diagnosed as
having, e.g., emphysema with an inhibitor of MAVS and/or
an agonist of NLRXI. Subjects having emphysema can be
identiﬁed by a physician using current methods of diagnos-
ing emphysema. Symptoms and/or complications of emphy-
sema which characterize these conditions and aid in diag-
nosis are well known in the art and include but are not
limited to, shortness of breath. Tests that may aid in a
diagnosis of, eg. emphysema include, but are not limited to,
chest X-rays, CT scans, blood oxygenation tests, and lung
function tests, A family history of emphysema, or exposure
to risk factors for emphysema (e.g. smoking) can also aid in
determining if a subject is likely to have emphysema or in
making a diagnosis of emphysema.

[0083] The compositions and methods described herein
can be administered to a subject having or diagnosed as
having COPD, emphysema, and/0r cigarette smoke-induced
lung damage. In some embodiments, the methods described
herein comprise administering an effective amount of com-
positions described herein, e.g. an inhibitor of MAVS and/or
an agonist of NLRXI to a subject in order to alleviate a
symptom of COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-
induced lung damage. As used herein, “alleviating a symp-
tom” of a disease or condition is ameliorating any condition
or symptom associated with the disease or condition. As
compared with an equivalent untreated control, such reduc-
tion is by at least 5%, 10%, 20%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 80%,
90%, 95%, 99% or more as measured by any standard
technique. A variety of mains for administering the com-
positions described herein to subjects are known to those of
skill in the art. Such methods can include, but are not limited
to oral, parenteral, intravenous, intramuscular, subcutane-
ous, transdermal, airway (aerosol), pulmonary, cutaneous,
topical, or injection administration. Administration can be
local or systemic.

[0084] The term “effective amount” as used herein refers
to the amount of an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of
NLRXl needed to alleviate at least one or more symptom of
the disease or disorder, and relates to a sufﬁcient amount of
pharmacological composition to provide the desired effect.
The term “therapeutically elfective amount” therefore refers
to an amount of an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of
US 2019/0030119 A1

alternative embodiments may perform functions in a differ-
ent order, or functions may be perfomied substantially
concurrently. The teachings of the disclosure provided
herein can be applied to other procedures or methods as
appropriate, The various embodiments described herein can
be combined to provide further embodiments Aspects of the
disclosure can be modiﬁed, if necessary, to employ the
compositions, functions and concepts of the above refer-
ences and application to provide yet further embodiments of
the disclosure. Moreover, due to biological functional
equivalency considerations, some changes can be made in
protein structure without affecting the biological or chemical
action in kind or amount These and other changes can be
made to the disclosure in light of the detailed description All
such modiﬁcations are intended to be included within the
scope of the appended claims,

[0189] Speciﬁc elements of any of the foregoing embodi-
ments can be combined or substituted for elements in other
embodiments Furthermore, while advantages associated
with certain embodiments of the disclosure have been
described in the context of these embodiments, other
embodiments may also exhibit such advantages, and not all
embodiments need necessarily exhibit such advantages to
fall within the scope of the disclosure.

[0190] The technology described herein is ﬁirther illus-
trated by the following examples which in no way should be
construed as being further limitingi

[0191] Some embodiments of the technology described
herein can be deﬁned according to any of the following
numbered paragraphs:

[0192] 1. A method of treating COPD in a subject in
need thereof, the method comprising administering an
inhibitor of MAVS,

[0193] 2. A method of treating cigarette smoke-induced
lung damage in a subject in need thereof, the method
comprising administering an inhibitor of MAVS.

[0194] 3. The method of paragraph 2, wherein the
cigarette smoke-induced lung damage is selected from
the group consisting of:

[0195] inﬂammation; alveolar destruction; protease
induction; structural cell apoptosis;
[0196] and inﬂammasome activationi

[0197] 4. A method of treating emphysema in a subject
in need thereof, the method comprising administering
an inhibitor of MAVS,

[0198] 5 The method of paragraph 4, wherein the
emphysema is cigarette smoke induced emphysema.

[0199] 6. The method of any of paragraphs 1-5, wherein
the inhibitor of MAVS is an agonist of NLRXl,

[0200] 71 The method of any of paragraphs 1-5, wherein
the inhibitor of MAVS is a modulator of NLRXl-
dependent pathways.

[0201] 8. The method of paragraph 6, wherein the
agonist of NLRXl is a nucleic acid encoding NLRXl
or an NLRX] polypeptide

[0202] 9. A method of treating COPD in a subject in
need thereof, the method comprising administering an
agonist of NLRXl,

[0203] 10. A method of treating cigarette smoke-in-
duced lung damage in a subject in need thereof, the
method comprising administering an agonist of
NLRXl.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0204] 11. The method of paragraph 10, wherein the
cigarette smoke-induced lung damage is selected from
the group consisting of:

[0205] inﬂammation; alveolar destruction; protease
induction; structural cell apoptosis;

[0206] and inﬂammasome activation.

[0207] 2. A method of treating emphysema in a subject
in neec thereof, the method comprising administering
an agonist of NLRXli

[0208] 3 The method of paragraph 12, wherein the
emphysema is cigarette smoke induced emphysemai

[0209] 4. The method of any of paragraphs 1-13,
wherein the subject is a subject determined to have a
decreased level of NLRXl expressioni

[0210] 5. An assay comprising:

[0211] measuring the level of NLRX] in a test
sample obtained from a subject;

[0212] wherein an decrease in the expression level
relative to a reference level indicates the subject has
a higier risk of having or developing COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage.

[0213] 61 A method of identifying a subject in need of
treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-
inducec lung damage, the method comprising:

[0214] measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject; and

[0215] identifying the subject as being in need of
treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-
induced lung damage when the expression level of
NLRXl is decreased relative to a reference level.

[0216] 17. Amethod ofdetermining ifa subject is at risk
for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung
damage, the method comprising:

[0217] measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject;

[0218] comparing the level of NLRX] in the sample
to a reference level of NLRXl;

[0219] determining that the subject is at risk for
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung
damage when the level of NLRXl is decreased
relative to a reference level; and

[0220] determining that the subject is not at risk for
COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-induced lung
damage when the level of NLRXl is not decreased
relative to a reference level.

[0221] 18. A method of determining the efﬁcacy of a
treatment for COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette-
induced lung damage, the method comprising:

[0222] (a) measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject before administra-
tion of the treatment;

[0223] (b) measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject after administration
of the treatment;

[0224] (c) determining that the treatment is eﬂica-
cious when the expression level determined in step
(b) is not decreased relative to the expression level
determined in step (a); and

[0225] (d) determining that the treatment is not efﬁ-
cacious when the expression level determined in step
(b) is decreased relative to the expression level
determined in step (a).
US 2019/0030119 A1

The term “treating” includes reducing or alleviating at least
one adverse effect or symptom of a condition, disease or
disorder associated with a condition. Treatment is generally
“effective" if one or more symptoms or clinical markers are
reduced, Alternatively, treatment is “effective" if the pro-
gression of a disease is reduced or halted. That is, “treat-
ment” includes not just the improvement of symptoms or
markers, but also a cessation of, or at least slowing of,
progress or worsening of symptoms compared to what
would be expected in the absence of treatment. Beneﬁcial or
desired clinical results include, but are not limited to,
alleviation of one or more symptom(s), diminishment of
extent of disease, stabilized (i.e., not worsening) state of
disease, delay or slowing of disease progression, ameliora-
tion or palliation of the disease state, remission (whether
partial or total), and/or decreased mortality, whether detect-
able or undetectable. The term “treatment" of a disease also
includes providing relief from the symptoms or side-effects
of the disease (including palliative treatment).

[017 6] As used herein, the term “pharmaceutical compo-
sition” refers to the active agent in combination with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier eg. a carrier commonly
used in the pharmaceutical industry. The phrase “pharma-
ceutically acceptable” is employed herein to refer to those
compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms
which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment,
suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings
and animals without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic
response, or other problem or complication. conmiensurate
with a reasonable beneﬁt/risk ratio.

[0177] As used herein, the term “administering,” refers to
the placement of a compound as disclosed herein into a
subject by a method or route which results in at least partial
delivery of the agent at a desired site. Pharmaceutical
compositions comprising the compounds disclosed herein
can be administered by any appropriate route which results
in an eﬁective treatment in the subject.

[0178] The term “statistically signiﬁcant" or “signiﬁ-
cantly” refers to statistical signiﬁcance and generally means
a two standard deviation (2SD) or greater difference.
[0179] Other than in the operating examples, or where
otherwise indicated, all numbers expressing quantities of
ingredients or reaction conditions used herein should be
understood as modiﬁed in all instances by the term “about.”
The term “about” when used in connection with percentages
can mama-1%.

[0180] As used herein the term “comprising” or “com-
prises” is used in reference to compositions, methods, and
respective component(s) thereof, that are essential to the
method or composition, yet open to the inclusion of unspeci-
ﬁed elements, whether essential or not.

[0181] The term “consisting of’ refers to compositions,
methods, and respective components thereof as described
herein, which are exclusive of any element not recited in that
description of the embodiment.

[0182] As used herein the term “consisting essentially of”
refers to those elements required for a given embodiment.
The term permits the presence of elements that do not
materially affect the basic and novel or functional charac-
teristic(s) of that embodiment.

[0183] The singular terms “a,” “an,” and “the” include
plural referents unless context clearly indicates otherwise.
Similarly, the word “or” is intended to include “an ” unless
the context clearly indicates otherwise. Although methods

Jan. 31, 2019

and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein
can be used in the practice or testing of this disclosure,
suitable methods and materials are described below. The
abbreviation, “eg.” is derived from the Latin exempli gratia,
and is used herein to indicate a non-limiting example, Thus,
the abbreviation “e.g.” is synonymous with the term “for
example.”

[0184] Deﬁnitions of common terms in cell biology and
molecular biology can be found in “The Merck Manual of
Diagnosis and Therapy”, 19th Edition, published by Merck
Research Laboratories, 2006 (ISBN 0-911910—19-0); Robert
S. Porter et al. (eds), The Encyclopedia of Molecular
Biology, published by Blackwell Science Ltd., 1994 (ISBN
0-632-02182-9); The ELISA guidebook (Methods in
molecular biology 149) by Crowther J. R. (2000); Funda-
mentals of RIA and Other Ligand Assays by Jeffrey Travis,
1979, Scientiﬁc Newsletters; Immunology by Werner Lutt-
mann, published by Elsevier, 2006. Deﬁnitions of common
terms in molecular biology can also be found in Benjamin
Lewin, Genes X, published by Jones & Bartlett Publishing,
2009 (ISBN-10: 0763766321); Kendrew et al. (eds),
Molecular Biology and Biotechnology: a Comprehensive
Desk Reference, published by VCH Publishers, Inc, 1995
(ISBN 1-56081-569-8) and Current Protocols in Protein
Sciences 2009, Wiley Intersciences, Coligan et al., eds.
[0185] Unless otherwise stated, the present invention was
performed using standard procedures, as described, for
example in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Labora-
tory Manual (4 ed), Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press,
Cold Spring Harbor, NY, USA (2012); Current Protocols in
Protein Science (CPPS) (John E. Coligan, et. al., ed, John
Wiley and Sons, Inc.). Current Protocols in Cell Biology
(CPCB) (Juan S. Bonifacino et. al. ed., John Wiley and Sons,
Inc.), and Culture of Animal Cells: A Manual of Basic
Technique by R. Ian Freshney, Publisher: Wiley-Liss; 5th
edition (2005), which are all incorporated by reference
herein in their entireties,

[0186] Other terms are deﬁned herein within the descrip-
tion of the various aspects of the invention.

[0187] A11 patents and other publications; including litera-
ture references, issued patents, published patent applica-
tions, and co-pending patent applications; cited throughout
this application are expressly incorporated herein by refer-
ence for the purpose of describing and disclosing, for
example, the methodologies described in such publications
that might be used in connection with the technology
described herein. These publications are provided solely for
their disclosure prior to the ﬁling date of the present appli-
cation. Nothing in this regard should be construed as an
admission that the inventors are not entitled to antedate such
disclosure by Virtue of prior invention or for any other
reason. All statements as to the date or representation as to
the contents of these documents is based on the information
available to the applicants and does not constitute any
admission as to the correctness of the dates or contents of
these documents.

[0188] The description of embodiments of the disclosure
is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to
the precise form disclosed. While speciﬁc embodiments of,
and examples for, the disclosure are described herein for
illustrative purposes, various equivalent modiﬁcations are
possible within the scope of the disclosure, as those skilled
in the relevant art will recognize. For example, while
method steps or functions are presented in a given order,
US 2019/0030119 A1

light-absorbing dye, a ﬂuorescent dye, or a radioactive label.
Detectable labels, methods of detecting them, and methods
of incorporating them into reagents (e.g. antibodies and
nucleic acid probes) are well known in the art.

[0070] In some embodiments, detectable labels can
include labels that can be detected by spectroscopic, pho-
tochemical, biochemical, immunochemical, electromag-
netic, radiochemical, or chemical means, such as ﬂuores-
cence, chemiﬂuoresence, or chemiluminescence, or any
other appropriate means. The detectable labels used in the
methods described herein can be primary labels (where the
label comprises a moiety that is directly detectable or that
produces a directly detectable moiety) or secondary labels
(where the detectable label binds to another moiety to
produce a detectaale signal, eg, as is common in immu-
nological labeling using secondary and tertiary antibodies).
The detectable la ael can be linked by covalent or non-
covalent means to the reagent. Alternatively, a detectable
label can be linked such as by directly labeling a molecule
that achieves binc'ng to the reagent via a ligand-receptor
binding pair arrangement or other such speciﬁc recognition
molecules. Detectable labels can include, but are not limited
to radioisotopes, bioluminescent compounds, chro-
mophores, antibocies, chemiluminescent compounds, ﬂuo-
rescent compounds, metal chelates, and enzymes.

[0071] In other embodiments, the detection reagent is
label with a ﬂuorescent compound. When the ﬂuorescently
labeled reagent is exposed to light of the proper wavelength,
its presence can men be detected due to ﬂuorescence In
some embodiments, a detectable label can be a ﬂuorescent
dye molecule, or luorophore including, but not limited to
ﬂuorescein, phycoerythrin, phycocyanin, o-phthaldehyde,
ﬂuorescamine, Cy3TM, CySTM, allophycocyanine, Texas
Red, peridenin eilorophyll, cyanine, tandem conjugates
such as phycoerythrin-CySTM, green ﬂuorescent protein,
rhodamine, ﬂuorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) and Oregon
GreenTM, rhodamine and derivatives (e.g., Texas red and
tetrarhodimine isothiocynate (TRITC)), biotin, phycoeryth-
rin, AMCA, CyDyes", 6-carboxyfhiorescein (commonly
known by the abbreviations FAM and F), 6—carboxy-2‘,4‘,
7',4,7-hexachloroﬁuorescein (HEX), 6-carboxy-4',5‘-di-
chloro-2',7'-dimethoxyﬂuorescein (JOE or J), N,N,N',N‘-
tetramethyl-6carboxyrhodamine (TAMRA or T), 6-carboxy-
X-rhodamine (ROX or R), S-carboxyrhodamine-GG (R6G5
or G5), 6-carboxyrhodamine-6G (R6G6 or G6), and rhod-
amine llO; cyanine dyes, eg. Cy3, Cy5 and Cy7 dyes;
coumarins, e.g umbelliferone; benzimide dyes, e.g. Hoechst
33258; phenanthridine dyes, e.g. Texas Red; ethidium dyes;
acridine dyes; carbazole dyes; phenoxazine dyes; porphyrin
dyes; polymethine dyes, e.g. cyanine dyes such as Cy3, Cy5,
etc; BODIPY dyes and quinoline dyes. In some embodi-
ments, a detectable label can be a radiolabel including, but
not limited to 3H, ”SI, 35S, 1“C, 32P, and 33R In some
embodiments, a detectable label can be an enzyme includ-
ing, but not limited to horseradish peroxidase and alkaline
phosphatase. An enzymatic label can produce, for example,
a chemiluminescent signal, a color signal, or a ﬂuorescent
signal. Enzymes contemplated for use to detectably label an
antibody reagent include, but are not limited to, malate
dehydrogenase, staphylococcal nuclease, delta-V-steroid
isornerase, yeast alcohol dehydrogenase, alpha-glycero-
phosphate dehydrogenase, triose phosphate isornerase,
horseradish peroxidase, alkaline phosphatase, asparaginase,
glucose oxidase, beta-galactosidase, ribonuclease, urease,

 

Jan. 3], 2019

catalase, glucose-VI-phosphate dehydrogenase, glucoamy-
lase and acetylcholinesterase. In some embodiments, a
detectable label is a chemiluminescent label, including, but
not limited to lucigenin, luminol, luciferin, isoluminol,
theromatic acridinium ester, imidazole, acridinium salt and
oxalate ester. In some embodiments, a detectable label can
be a spectral colorimetric label including, but not limited to
colloidal gold or colored glass or plastic (egi, polystyrene,
polypropylene, and latex) beads.

[0072] In some embodiments, detection reagents can also
be labeled with a detectable tag, such as c-Myc, HA, VSV—G,
HSV, FLAG, V5, HIS, or biotin. Other detection systems
can also be used, for example, a biotin-streptavidin system.
In this system, the antibodies irnmunoreactive (i. e. speciﬁc
for) with the biomarker of interest is biotinylated. Quantity
of biotinylated antibody bound to the biomarker is deter-
mined using a streptavidin-peroxidase conjugate and a
chromagenic substrate. Such streptavidin peroxidase detec-
tion kits are commercially available, e. g. from DAKO;
Carpinteria, Calif. A reagent can also be detectably labeled
using ﬂuorescence emitting metals such as 152Eu, or others
of the lanthanide seriesi These metals can be attached to the
reagent using such metal chelating groups as diethylenetri-
aminepentaacetic acid (DTPA) or ethylenediaminetet-
raacetic acid (EDTA).

[0073] A level which is less than a reference level can be
a level which is less by at least about 10%, at least about
20%, at least about 50%, at least about 600%. at least about
80%, at least about 90%, or less than the reference level. In
some embodiments, a level which is less than a reference
level can be a level which is statistically signiﬁcantly less
than the reference level. In some embodiments, the reference
can be a level of NLRXl in a population of subjects who do
not have or are not diagnosed as having, and/or do not
exhibit signs or symptoms of COPD, emphysema, and/or
cigarette smoke-induced lung damage. In some embodi-
ments, the reference can also be a level of expression of
NLRXl in a control sample, a pooled sample of control
individuals or a numeric value or range of values based on
the same. In some embodiments, the reference can be the
level of NLRXl in a sample obtained from the same subject
at an earlier point in time, e.g., the methods described herein
can be used to determine ifa subject’s risk or likelihood of
developing COPD, emphysema, and/or cigarette smoke-
induced lung damage is increasing.

[0074] In some embodiments, the level of expression
products of no more than 200 other genes is determined In
some embodiments, the level of expression products of no
more than 100 other genes is determined. In some embodi-
ments, the level of expression products of no more than 20
other genes is determined. In some embodiments, the level
of expression products of no more than 10 other genes is
determined.

[0075] In some embodiments of the foregoing aspects, the
expression level of a given gene, e.g., NLRXl, can be
normalized relative to the expression level of one or more
reference genes or reference proteins.

[0076] The term “sample” or “test sample” as used herein
denotes a sample taken or isolated from a biological organ-
ism, eg., a blood or plasma sample from a subject Exem-
plary biological samples include, but are not limited to, a
bioﬂuid sample; serum; plasma; urine; saliva; and/or tissue
sample etc. The term also includes a mixture of the above-
mentioned samples. The term “test sample” also includes
US 2019/0030119 A1

[0226] 19. A method of treatment for COPD, emphy-
sema, and/0r cigarette-induced lung damage compris-
mg;

[0227] measuring the level of NLRXl in a test
sample obtained from a subject;

[0228] treating the subject when the level of NLRXl
is decreased relative to a reference level,

[0229] 20. A method of treatment for COPD, emphy-
sema, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage compris-
mg;

[0230] treating a subject determined to have a level of
NLRXl which is decreased relative to a reference
level,

[0231] 21, The method of any of paragraphs 19-20,
wherein the treatment comprises a treatment selected
from the group consisting of:

[0232] administration of a bronchodilator; adminis-
tration of an inhaled steroid;

[0233] administration of oxygen therapy; bullec-
tomy; lung volume reduction surgery;

[0234] smoking cessation; lung transplant; adminis-
tration of an inhibitor of MAVS;

[0235] administration of an agonist of NLRX];
administration of a nucleic acid encoding NLRXl;
and administration of a NLRXl polypeptide.

[0236] 22. The assay/method of any of paragraphs
15-21, wherein the level of NLRXl is determined by
measuring the level of a nucleic acid.

[0237] 23. The assay/method of paragraph 22, wherein
the level of NLRXl is determined by measuring the
level of NLRXl RNA transcript,

[0238] 24. The assay/method of any of paragraphs
22-23, wherein the level of the nucleic acid is deter-
mined using a method selected from the group consist-
ing of:

[0239] RT—PCR; quantitative RT-PCR; Northem blot;
microarray based expression analysis; next-genera-
tion sequencing; and RNA in situ hybridization.

[0240] 25, The assay/method of any of paragraphs
15-24, wherein the level of NLRXl is determined by
measuring the level of NLRXl polypeptide.

[0241] 26, The assay/method of paragraph 25, wherein
the level of the polypeptide is determined using a
method selected from the group consisting of:

[0242] Western blot; immunoprecipitation; enzyme-
linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA); radioimmtmo-
logical assay (RIA); sandwich assay; ﬂuorescence in
situ hybridization (FISH); immunohistological stain-
ing; radioimmunometric assay;

[0243] immunoﬂuoresence assay; mass spectroscopy;
FACS; and immunoelectrophoresis assay.

[0244] 27. The assay/method of any of paragraphs 25-26,
wherein the polypeptide level is measured using immu-
nochemistry.

[0245] 28. The assay of paragraph 27, wherein the anti-
body reagent is detectably labeled or generates a detect-
able signal.

[0246] 29. The assay/method of any of paragraphs 15-28,
wherein the expression level of NLRXl is normalized
relative to the expression level of one or more reference
genes or reference proteins.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0247] 30. The assay/method of any ofparagraphs 15-29,
wherein the reference level of NLRXl is the expression
level of NLRXl in a prior sample obtained from the
subject.

[0248] 31. The assay/method of any of paragraphs 15-30,
wherein the subject is a subject with a history of smoking,

[0249] 32. The assay/method of any of paragraphs 15-31,
wherein the sample is selected from the group consisting
of:

[0250] a lung biopsy; bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL);
sputum; induced sputum; blood;

[0251] plasma; and serum.

[0252] 33. The assay/method of any ofparagraphs 15-32,
further comprising the step of treating the subject with a
treatment selected from the group consisting of:

[0253] administration of a bronchodilator; administra-
tion of an inhaled steroid;

[0254] administration of oxygen therapy; bullectomy;
lung volume reduction surgery;

[0255] smoking cessation; lung transplant; administra-
tion of an inhibitor of MAVS;

[0256] administration of an agonist of NLRXl; admin-
istration of a nucleic acid encoding NLRX]; and
administration of a NLRXl polypeptide.

[0257] 34. Akit for performing the method/assay ofany of
paragraphs 15-33.

[0258] 35. The use of an inhibitor of MAVS for treating
COPD, emphysema, or cigarette-induced lung damange
in a subject in need thereof, the use comprising admin-
istering an inhibitor of MAVS to the subject.

[0259] 36. The use of paragraph 35, wherein the cigarette
smoke-induced lung damage is selected from the group
consisting of:

[0260] inﬂammation; alveolar destruction; protease
induction; structural cell apoptosis;

[0261] and inﬂammasome activation.

[0262] 37. The use of paragraph 35, wherein the emphy-
sema is cigarette smoke induced emphysema.

[0263] 38. The use of any of paragraphs 35-37, wherein
the inhibitor of MAVS is an agonist of NLRXl,

[0264] 39. The use of any of paragraphs 35-38, wherein
the inhibitor of MAVS is a modulator of NLRXl-depen-
dent pathways.

[0265] 40. The method of paragraph 38, wherein the
agonist of NLRXl is a nucleic acid encoding NLRXl or
an NLRXl polypeptide.

[0266] 41. The use of an inhibitor of MAVS for treating
COPD, emphysema; or cigarette-induced lung damange
in a subject in need thereof, the use comprising admin-
istering an agonist of NLRX] to the subject.

[0267] 42. The use of paragraph 41, wherein the cigarette
smoke-induced lung damage is selected from the group
consisting of:

[0268] inﬂammation; alveolar destruction; protease
induction; structural cell apoptosis;
[0269] and inﬂammasome activation.

[0270] 43. The use of paragraph 41, wherein the emphy-
sema is cigarette smoke induced emphysema.

[0271] 44. The method of any of paragraphs 41-43;
wherein the agonist of NLRXl is a nucleic acid encoding
NLRXl or or an NLRXl polypeptide.
US 2019/0030119 A1

NLRXl that is suﬂicient to provide a particular effect when
administered to a typical subject. An etfective amount as
used herein, in various contexts, would also include an
amount suﬂicient to delay the development of a symptom of
the disease, alter the course of a symptom disease (for
example but not limited to, slowing the progression of a
symptom of the disease), or reverse a symptom of the
disease, Thus, it is not generally practicable to specify an
exact “eﬁective amount”. However, for any given case, an
appropriate “etfective amount” can be determined by one of
ordinary skill in the art using only routine experimentation

[0085] Effective amounts, toxicity, and therapeutic efﬁ-
cacy can be determined by standard pharmaceutical proce-
dures in cell cultures or experimental animals, e.g., for
determining the LDSO (the dose lethal to 50% of the
population) and the EDSO (the dose therapeutically eﬁfective
in 50% of the population), The dosage can vary depending
upon the dosage form employed and the route of adminis-
tration utilized. The dose ratio between toxic and therapeutic
effects is the therapeutic index and can be expressed as the
ratio LDSO/EDSOI Compositions and methods that exhibit
large therapeutic indices are preferred. A therapeutically
eﬁective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture
assays, Also, a dose can be formulated in animal models to
achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that
includes the IC50 (i.e,, the concentration of an inhibitor of
MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl, which achieves a
half-maximal inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell
culture, or in an appropriate animal model, Levels in plasma
can be measured, for example, by high performance liquid
chromatography, The effects of any particular dosage can be
monitored by a suitable bioassay, e.g,, assay for inﬂamma-
tion in the lungs, among others The dosage can be deter-
mined by a physician and adjusted, as necessary, to suit
observed effects of the treatment

[0086] In some embodiments, the technology described
herein relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising
an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl as
described herein, and optionally a pharmaceutically accept-
able carrier. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and
diluents include saline, aqueous buffer solutions, solvents
and/or dispersion media, The use of such carriers and
diluents is well known in the art, Some non-limiting
examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically-
acceptable carriers include: (1) sugars, such as lactose,
glucose and sucrose; (2) starches, such as corn starch and
potato starch; (3) cellulose, and its derivatives, such as
sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, methylcellulose, ethyl cel-
lulose, microcrystalline cellulose and cellulose acetate; (4)
powdered tragacanth; (5) malt; (6) gelatin; (7) lubricating
agents, such as magnesium stearate, sodium lauryl sulfate
and talc; (8) excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository
waxes; (9) oils, such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil, safﬂower
oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean oil; (10)
glycols, such as propylene glycol; (11) polyols, such as
glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol and polyethylene glycol (PEG);
(12) esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; (13) agar;
(14) buffering agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and
aluminum hydroxide; (15) alginic acid; (16) pyrogen-free
water; (17) isotonic saline; (18) Ringer’s solution; (19) ethyl
alcohol; (20) pH bulfered solutions; (21) polyesters, poly-
carbonates and/or polyanhydrides; (22) bulking agents, such
as polypeptides and amino acids (23) serum component,
such as serum albumin, HDL and LDL; (22) C2-Cl2 alco-

Jan. 31, 2019

hols, such as ethanol; and (23) other non-toxic compatible
substances employed in pharmaceutical formulations. Wet-
ting agents, coloring agents, release agents, coating agents,
sweetening agents, ﬂavoring agents, perfuming agents, pre-
servative and antioxidants can also be present in the formu-
lation, The terms such as “excipient”, “carrier”, “pharma-
ceutically acceptable carrier” or the like are used
interchangeably herein. In some embodiments, the carrier
inhibits the degradation of the active agent, e,g. an inhibitor

of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl as described herein.

[0087] In some embodiments, the pharmaceutical compo-
sition comprising an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of
NLRXl as described herein can be a parenteral dose form.
Since administration of parenteral dosage forms typically
bypasses the patient’s natural defenses against contami-
nants, parenteral dosage forms are preferably sterile or
capable of being sterilized prior to administration to a
patient. Examples of parenteral dosage forms include, but
are not limited to, solutions ready for injection, dry products
ready to be dissolved or suspended in a pharrnaceutically
acceptable vehicle for injection, suspensions ready for injec-
tion, and emulsions. In addition, controlled-release parent-
eral dosage forms can be prepared for administration of a
patient, including, but not limited to, DUROS-type dosage
forms and dose-dumping.

[0088] Suitable vehicles that can be used to provide par-
enteral dosage forms of an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an
agonist of NLRXl as disclosed within are well known to
those skilled in the art. Examples include, without limita-
tion: sterile water; water for injection USP; saline solution;
glucose solution; aqueous vehicles such as but not limited to,
sodium chloride injection, Ringer’s injection, dextrose
Injection, dextrose and sodium chloride injection, and lac-
tated Ringer’ 5 injection; water-miscible vehicles such as, but
not limited to, ethyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol, and pro-
pylene glycol; and non-aqueous vehicles such as, but not
limited to, corn oil, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, sesame oil,
ethyl oleate, isopropyl myristate, and benzyl benzoate. Com-
pounds that alter or modify the solubility of a pharmaceu-
tically acceptable salt of an inhibitor of MAVS and/or an
agonist of NLRXl as disclosed herein can also be incorpo-
rated into the parenteral dosage forms of the disclosure,
including conventional and controlled-release parenteral
dosage forms.

[0089] Pharmaceutical compositions comprising an
inhibitor of MAVS and/or an agonist of NLRXl can also be
formulated to be suitable for oral administration, for
example as discrete dosage forms, such as, but not limited
to, tablets (including without limitation scored or coated
tablets), pills, caplets, capsules, chewable tablets, powder
packets, cachets, troches, wafers, aerosol sprays. or liquids,
such as but not limited to, syrups, elixirs, solutions or
suspensions in an aqueous liquid, a non-aqueous liquid, an
oil-in-water emulsion, or a water-in-oil emulsion Such
compositions contain a predetermined amount of the phar-
maceutically acceptable salt of the disclosed compounds,
and may be prepared by methods of pharmacy well known
to those skilled in the art. See generally, Remington: The
Science and Practice of Pharmacy, 21st Ed, Lippincott,
Williams, and Wilkins, Philadelphia Pa (2005).

[0090] A composition comprising an inhibitor of MAVS
and/or agonist of NLRXl can be administered directly to the
airways of a subject in the form of an aerosol or by
nebulization. For use as aerosols, an inhibitor of MAVS
US 2019/0030119A1
11

and/or agonist of NLRX in solution or suspension may be
packaged in a pressurized aerosol container together with
suitable propellants, for example, hydrocarbon propellants
like propane, butane, or isobutane with conventional adju-
vants. An inhibitor of MAVS and/or agonist of NLRXl can
also be administered in a non-pressurized form such as in a
nebulizer or atomizer.

[0091] The term “nebulization” is well known in the art to
include reducing liquid to a ﬁne spray. Preferably, by such
nebulization small liquid droplets of uniform size are pro-
duced from a larger bocy of liquid in a controlled manner.
Nebulization can be achieved by any suitable means there-
fore, including by using many nebulizers known and mar-
keted today. For examp e, an AEROMIST pneumatic nebu-
lizer available from Inialation Plastic, Inc. of Niles, Ill.
When the active ingredients are adapted to be administered,
either together or individually, via nebulizer(s) they can be
in the form of a nebulized aqueous suspension or solution,
with or without a suitable pH or tonicity adjustment, either
as a unit dose or multi ose device.

[0092] As is well known, any suitable gas can be used to
apply pressure during the nebulization, with preferred gases
to date being those whic are chemically inert to a modulator
of an inhibitor of MAVS and/or agonist of NLRXI. Exem-
plary gases including, but are not limited to, nitrogen, argon
or helium can be used to high advantage.

[0093] In some embociments, an inhibitor of MAVS and/
or agonist of NLRXl can also be administered directly to the
airways in the form ofa dry powder. For use as a dry powder,
an inhibitor of MAVS and/or agonist of NLRXl can be
administered by use of an inhaler. Exemplary inhalers
include metered dose in alers and dry powdered inhalers.
[0094] A metered dose inhaler or “MDI” is a pressure
resistant canister or container ﬁlled with a product such as a
pharmaceutical composition dissolved in a liqueﬁed propel-
lant or micronized particles suspended in a liqueﬁed pro-
pellant. The propellants which can be used include chloro-
ﬂuorocarbons, hydrocarbons or hydroﬂuoroalkanes.
Especially preferred propellants are P134a (tetraﬂuoroeth-
ane) and P227 (heptaﬂuoropropane) each of which may be
used alone or in combination. They are optionally used in
combination with one or more other propellants and/or one
or more surfactants and/or one or more other excipients, for
example ethanol, a lubricant, an anti-oxidant and/or a sta-
bilizing agent. The correct dosage of the composition is
delivered to the patient.

[0095] A dry powder inhaler (i.e, Turbuhaler (Astra AB))
is a system operable with a source of pressurized air to
produce dry powder particles of a pharmaceutical compo-
sition that is compacted into a very small volume.

[0096] Dry powder aerosols for inhalation therapy are
generally produced with mean diameters primarily in the
range of <5um. As the diameter of particles exceeds 3 pm,
there is increasingly less phagocytosis by macrophages.
However, increasing the particle size also has been found to
minimize the probability of particles (possessing standard
mass density) entering the airways and acini due to exces-
sive deposition in the oropharyngeal or nasal regions.
[0097] Suitable powder compositions include, by way of
illustration. powdered preparations of an inhibitor of MAVS
and/or agonist of NLRXI thoroughly intermixed with lac-
tose; or other inert powders acceptable for intrabronchial
administration. The powder compositions can be adminis-
tered via an aerosol dispenser or encased in a breakable

 

 

Jan. 31, 2019

capsule which may be inserted by the patient into a device
that punctures the capsule and blows the powder out in a
steady stream suitable for inhalation. The compositions can
include propellants, surfactants, and co-solvents and may be
ﬁlled into conventional aerosol containers that are closed by
a suitable metering valve.

[0098] Aerosols for the delivery to the respiratory tract are
known in the art. See for example, Adjei, A. and Garren, J.
Pharm. Res, 1: 565-569 (1990); Zanen, P. and Lamm, J.-W.
J, Int, J. Pharm, 114: 111-115 (1995); Gonda, I. “Aerosols
for delivery of therapeutic an diagnostic agents to the
respiratory tract,” in Critical Reviews in Therapeutic Drug
Carrier Systems, 6:273-313 (1990); Anderson et al., Am.
Rev. Respir Dis, 140: 1317-1324 (1989)) and have potential
for the systemic delivery of peptides and proteins as well
(Patton and Platz, Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews, 8:179-
196 (1992)); Timsina et. al., Int. J. Pharm, 101: 1-13
(1995); and Tansey, I. P.; Spray Techno]. Market, 4:26-29
(1994); French, D. L., Edwards, D. A. and Niven, R. W.,
Aerosol Sci., 27: 769-783 (1996); Visser, J., Powder Tech-
nology 58: 1-10 (1989)); Rudt, S. and R, H. Muller, J.
Controlled Release, 22: 263-272 (1992); Tabata, Y, and Y
lkada, Biomed, Mater Res, 22: 837-858 (1988); Wall, D. A.,
Drug Delivery, 2: 10 l-20 1995); Patton, J. and Platz, R.,
Adv. Drug Del. Rev., 8: 179-196 (1992); Bryon; P., Adv.
Drug. Del. Rev., 5: 107-132 (1990); Patton, J. S., et al.,
Controlled Release, 28: 15 79-85 (1994); Danu‘ns, B. and
Bains, W., Nature Biotechnology (1996): Niven, R. W,. et
al., Pharm. Res, 12(9); 1343-1349 (1995); and Kobayashi,
S,, et al., Pharm. Res, 13(1): 80-83 (1996), contents of all
of which are herein incorporated by reference in their
entirety.

[0099] Conventional dosage forms generally provide rapid
or immediate drug release from the formulation, Depending
on the pharmacology and pharmacokinetics of the drug, use
of conventional dosage forms can lead to wide ﬂuctuations
in the concentrations of the drug in a patient’s blood and
other tissues. These ﬂuctuations can impact a number of
parameters. such as dose frequency, onset of action, duration
of eﬁicacy, maintenance of therapeutic blood levels, toxicity,
side effects, and the like. Advantageously, controlled-release
formulations can be used to control a dmg’s onset of action,
duration of action, plasma levels within the therapeutic
window, and peak blood levels. In particular, controlled- or
extended-release dosage forms or formulations can be used
to ensure that the maximum effectiveness of a drug is
achieved while minimizing potential adverse effects and
safety concerns, which can occur both from under-dosing a
drug (i.e., going below the minimum therapeutic levels) as
well as exceeding the toxicity level for the drug. In some
embodiments, the inhibitor of MAVS and/or agonist of
NLRXI can be administered in a sustained release formu-
lation.

[0100] Controlled-release pharmaceutical products have a
common goal of improving drug therapy over that achieved
by their non-controlled release counterparts. Ideally, the use
of an optimally designed controlled-release preparation in
medical treatment is characterized by a minimum of drug
substance being employed to cure or control the condition in
a minimum amount of time. Advantages of controlled-
release formulations include: 1) extended activity of the
drug; 2) reduced dosage frequency; 3) increased patient
compliance; 4) usage of less total drug; 5) reduction in local
or systemic side effects; 6) minimization of drug accumu-
US 2019/0030119 A1

EXAMPLES

Example 1: Suppression of NLRXl in Chronic
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease

[0272] It is demonstrated herein that NLRXl expression is
signiﬁcantly decreased in three COPD cohorts. This sup-
pression correlated with disease severity and inversely with
pulmonary function, quality of life and prognosis CS inhib-
ited murine NLRXl and null mutations of NLRXI aug-
mented CS-induced inﬂammation, alveolar destruction, pro-
tease induction, str'uctural cell apoptosis and inﬂarnrnasome
activation. In contrast, null mutations of MAVS abrogated
this CS-induced inﬂammation and remodeling. Furthermore,
restoration of NLRX] ameliorated CS-induced alveolar
destruction signiﬁcantly. Thus, CS inhibits NLRXI which
facilitates CS-induced and MAVS-dependent inﬂammatory,
remodeling, protease, cell death and inﬂammasome
responses.

[0273] Cigarette smoke (CS) causes a broad spectrum of
diseases characterized by inﬂammation and tissue remodel-
ing including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD), cancer and atherosclerosis(l-3). In many of these
disorders the inﬂammation is believed to drive disease
pathogenesis. This can be seen in, COPD, the fourth leading
cause of death in the world, where pulmonary inﬂammation
is believed to be causally related to the emphysema and
other pathologic alterations in the lungs from these patients
(3-5).

[0274] CS regulates the inﬂammasome where it activates
caspase 1 and IL-18(6, 7). IL-18 signaling also plays a key
role in the pathogenesis of CS-induced inﬂammation and
emphysema(6). However, the mechanism(s) that controls
lung inﬂamrnasome activation at baseline and the alterations
that CS induces to activate the inﬂammasome have not been
deﬁned.

[0275] Mitochondria are cellular powerhouses that gener-
ate ATP and participate in other critical responses including
calcium homeostasis, cell signaling, apoptosis, and aging(8).
Recent studies also demonstrated that mitochondria play a
critical role in cellular innate antiviral immunity (reviewed
in references 9, 10). Viral infections are well known to play
important roles in the pathogenesis of CS-induced disorders
such as COPD (11,12). CS and viruses/viral PAMPs interact
to induce exaggerated pulmonary inﬂammatory and remod-
eling responses and that MAVS (mitochondrial antiviral
signaling molecule) plays a critical role in this interaction
(5). MAVS is exquisitely regulated by stimulators such as
the RIG-like helicases that induce MAVS self-association
and induce inﬂammation Importantly, it is now known that
MAVS is tonically inhibited in the quiescent non-infected
state (reviewed in reference 13). In addition, the mitochon-
drial protein, nucleotide-binding, leucine-rich repeats (NLR)
molecule X1 (NLRXl) has been reported to inhibit virus
activation of MAVS (14-16).

[027 6] It is hypothesized herein that mitochondria play a
critical role in the pathogenesis of CS-induced responses in
COPD. Speciﬁcally it was hypothesized that the tissue
effects of CS are mediated by its ability to abrogate the
effects of speciﬁc MAVS inhibitors and that NLRXI is a
critical target of this CS-induced dysinhibition. To test this
hypothesis the expression of NLRXl was evaluated in three
cohorts of patients with COPD and the relationships
between NLRX] suppression and disease severity were
characterized. In addition, the effects of CS on the expres-

25

Jan. 3], 2019

sion of NLRXI were evaluated and the roles of MAVS and
NLRXl in CS-induced murine pulmonary inﬂammation and
alveolar remodeling responses were deﬁned.

RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

[0277] First, mRNAs were extracted from fresh frozen
lung tissues from the 7 controls and 36 patients with COPD
in the NIH-sponsored Lung Tissue Research Consortium
(LTRC) cohort. The latter contained 6, 10, 10 and 10
specimens from GOLD stage 1, 2, 3 and 4 individuals,
respectively. The basic demographic characteristics of these
patients are summarized in the Table 1. Interestingly, real-
time RT—PCR analysis demonstrated that the levels of
mRNA encoding NLRXl were signiﬁcantly decreased in
patients with advanced stages of COPD (FIG. 1A-1B). In
keeping with this observation, western blot evaluations of
mitochondria-enriched protein fractions demonstrated that
the expression of NLRX] protein was signiﬁcantly
decreased in patients with advanced stages of COPD (FIG.
1C). In addition, NLRXl expression correlated signiﬁcantly
with the patient’s forced expiratory volume in one second
(FEVI; % predicted), an indicator of airﬂow limitation and
a measure of COPD disease severity (FIG. 1D-1E). Inter-
estingly, similar correlations were noted between NLRXl
suppression and pre- and post-bronchodilator F EV1 suggest-
ing that these relationships are not related to reversible
airways obstruction (FIG. lD-lE). In addition, similar sup-
pression of NLRXl was seen in a cohort of patients from the
University of Pittsburgh which was most impressive in
patients with severe emphysema (FIG. 1F). Because the
LTRC and Pittsburgh cohorts did not contain large numbers
of patients with mild-moderate disease a third cohort of
Korean patients with mild-moderate disease (Asan cohort)
was also studied (Table 1C). The studies of this Asan cohort
demonstrated that, the expression of NLRX] was also
signiﬁcantly decreased in patients with GOLD Stage 1 and
2 COPD where it correlated signiﬁcantly with the patient’s
FEVl (%, predicted) (FIGS. 1G, 1H, 4A, 4B and 5). Almost
all human samples were from former or current smokers in
the three human cohorts (Table l), preventing the evaluation
of smoking effects on NLRX] expression in these cohorts.
There was no statistical difference of NLRXI expression
between former smokers vs. current smokers in all three
human cohorts (FIG. 6 and data not shown). Finally, in all
cases, these alterations were at least partially NLRXl-
speciﬁc because the expression of related genes including
RIG-I, MDA-S, MAVS, NLRP3 and caspases-l, -4 and -5
were not similarly altered (FIGS. 7A-7B and data not
shown). These studies demonstrate that the levels of NLRXl
are selectively decreased in patients with COPD where this
suppression correlates with clinical stage and parameters of
disease severity.

[0278] To further understand the clinical implications of
these ﬁndings, the relationships between NLRX] gene
expression and clinical parameters of COPD were evaluated.
These studies demonstrated that, in the LTRC cohort, the
levels of NLRX] gene expression also correlated with other
measures of pulmonary function including diffusing capac-
ity (DLCO) and 6 minute-walking distance (FIGS. 8A-8C
and data not shown). Importantly, the levels of NLRXl
mRNA also correlated inversely with the BODE index and
scores on the St. George’s Respiratory Questionnaire
(SGRQ) (FIG. 8B and data not shown) which are predictors
of disease mortality and quality of life respectively. The
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 1 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

   

   

<
g a
E E
*' ><
g E
z z
' Contra! 1 2 a a ' 0,1,2 3,4
COPD Stage (n=43) COPD Stage (n=43)
Fig. 1A Fig. 1B
NLRX 2'5 p = 0.002
g 5 r= 0.458, .
VDAC g ‘_ 1g '0
Stage 0 1 1 2 3 3 4 4 ,_
1.2
£2”; 1 E
can < :4 Z
a; D 0.8
3 3 o 6
> " ’
E E 0.4 .
g z 0 2 0 so 150
V ' FEV1 (%), pre—BD (n=43)
Stgge 0,1,2 3, 4 Fig 1D
Fig. 1C ‘
< ' 13
E a
,- § § 12
.J , g2
z o “5 1s
61‘
3

 

.11
o

0 50 100 Control < 1 “A 140% >40°la
FEV1 (%), postusD (n=35) $1; Emphysema (ﬂu < vase)

Fig. 1E Fig. 1F
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
38

7 cont inued

tcgatctcct gaccttgtga tccgcccgcc tcggcctccc aaagtgctgg gattacaggc 5100
gtgagccacc gcgcccagcc aaattaaatt ttttatagag atgaggtcat gctgttatgt 5160
tgcccaggtt ggcctcatga gatcttgcct tagcctccca aagtgctggg attacagatg 5220
tgagacactg cacccaaacc ccaccacttt tttttttcct ttttcttttt ttgagacagt 5280
cttactccgt tgcccaggct ggagtgtagt ggcatgatct Cagctcactg caacctccgc 5340
ctcccgggtt caagcaattc tcctgcctca gcctcccgag tagctgggat tacagaggcc 5400
tgccaccaca cccgactaat tttcgtattt ttagtagaga cggggtttct ccatgttggc 5460
caggctgttc ttgaactcct gacctcaagt gctccacctg cgttggcttc ccaaagtgct 5520
gggatacagg agtgagccac tgcgcctggc tgatcccagc acttttcaaa tgatgccgct 5580
caaagccgtg acttggccta ctttgaacag caaacttgtt gctgctgttg tcaacctgaa 5640
ggcctctcaa atgccagctt caagcagggt gtgaattggc cagtgtcaga tctcaggagt 5700
cctgtgttga gagtgtggct ttcagctgcg gggagctgca Cttggtgggg aaagccaggc 5760
aggtcaccct cacagccaga taatgtggag gtcagaaccc aaggaaggga gtgagacctc 5320
cactcccagt gggggacctg gccacccatc cttggggacc tgagaaagcg tacttcacct 5880
tggggtgaag gctgggtggg gccagaggga ccagtgccct cctcagtgct taggggcaga 5940
gccacctgca gcaatggtat ctgcatatta gcccctctcc accttctttc tcccgctgaa 6000
tcatttccct caaagcccaa gagctgtcac tgcttctttc tccctgggaa gaatgcgtgg 6060
actctgcctg gtgatagact gaagccagaa cagtgccaca ccctcgcctt aattccttgc 6120
taggtgttct cagatttatg agacttctta gtcaaatatg agggaggttg gatgtggtgg 6180
cttgtgcctg taatcccagc attttgggaa gccgaggtgg gaggatccct tgaagccagg 6240
agtttgagac aagcctgggc aacaaagcaa gaccctatct ctaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 6300
aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaatctagg agatgctctt taccctgcct ggcctcaaac 6360
tattaatagc ttcctttgag caacattatt tattatgaac tttcaaacac aaaaaagtag 6420
agagagtaga ataacaaatc Cccatgagcc catcacccaa Cttcagtaat tatcaattca 6480
tggccatctt gttcacccct gcctgcttcc Ctgcttcccc tcattctgca gaggttcttt 6540
tcttttgaga cagagtgttg thtgttgcc Caggctggag tgcagtggtg caacttcggc 6600
tcactgcaac ctccgcctcc Caggttcaag tgattctcct gcttcagcct ctcaagtagc 6660
tgggattaca gatgcccgcc accacacctg gctaattttc gtatttttgt tagagatggg 6720
gtttcaccat gttggccagg ctggtctcga actcctgacc tcaagtgatc cgcccgcctt 6780
ggcctcccaa aatgctggga ttacaggtgc gaaccacggc gcctggccac tgtacaggtt 6840
atttatagaa gttggagagt gaagggttga gaaagccaag gggcagatgc gggtctggag 6900
gattttgtgc ctaaggccct ctctttgctc ccagacagca tgaagtaaca atgaggcatc 6960
cacctcttgg ttttgtggcc tctgtggatg acgtctctca ccttgaacca gttcagagtt 7020
ggagtagcgc aggatcctgt cttcagagga ggggccgaag cgggttcctc tgttgtcaag 7080
ctctttggag gtgcctggct gctactactg tcccagagag gtgatgatga atgatgggtg 7140
tgtccagtgg cagtttgccc cactgaggca ggggcttcca ctaggccctg acagagccct 7200
tccagcaggc agaaatccct gtgctaggca agattcaaac tccgtagcat gtctcctgct 7260

cccatctctt aggaatggag tccttcaggc cttgagtccc acattttcca tgatgctcca 7320
US 2019/0030119 A1

tgaccactcg
agatctgcgg
agccgtactg
accacctggt
gcttcctgcc
cgcctgctgg
gggaaaccct
ccatgggcaa
atgtctgtgg
tcttccgtcg
gcaccttcgt
t999ttt989
9t9tt99998
ctctgcctct
gtaaaagccg
actacaacga
ggcgccaccc
99999cttct
acctggatgc
aggtgctgcc
agcgcttctc
tgacaccagt
atgaggtgaa
tottcctgcg
aggacctccg
acaacccgct
cagtgacgca
ctgcccagct
gtgacacagc
tacacctcta
gtgctgctga
aatactggtc
gggttcaecs
ttaatccttg
agcagctggg
tggccctaaa

ccttcaggtc

tttgaccagg

gccctctgcc
Ettctctgat
cgggtatgcc
gcagatgctc
gtcctattgc
gcagaccctt
ggacagcact
gttggcctat
ctgcctggag
ggatgccctg
gttcaccgtg
caagacgacc
ggacgtcagc
gctcttcaac
99899899t9
tgatgttctg
agatgagccc
ctctgcccac
cctggagaat
cccatcagag
C96t9899t9
caagtgcaca
cttggcctcc
tgcccggaag
agacctgttg
gacgscgsca
cctgtccctg
ggaccgcaac
ggccctggcc
cttcaatgag
a99t99t9<=C
agtgatcctc
acaccttgag
gcgcaaggcc
aagctctgga

ccttttccct

tggaggcaga

actgagtctg

attggccgta
accaacctgc
9tt99C99tt
tcccggaacc
tggctcgttt
acaagcatct
gacccctcca
gagggggtgt
gctggcatca
aggtttttcc
cccgccatgc
ctgcaaaagg
Ctggtactgg
ctgatcaagg
gctcaggcca
gaccagatgg
cctgaggatg
aaccgagctg
gcccaggcca
thcttgacc
ctcagctccc
gtggtggcag
tgccagctag
ctgggcttgc
ctgcatgacc
99t9tt9889
Ctgcacacgg
cggcagctgc
ctggccagag
ctgagctcag
cgggtggtgg
agtgaagtcc
thctactgc
cagctgctgc
agctgagaca
ctgtggcctc

ggaatgggca

gaatctccaa

tccccagcaa
agaagctcta
caggtgtctc
tggaggggca
gtgccacctt
ataccagctt
atttgtccct
cctcccgcaa
995C995993
tggccccatg
aggaatacct
t999caa998
gcatcatggc
tggttccacg
t99t98t998
gcgccagtat
aagtcttcga
tgctagctca
tcaagaagaa
acctcttctt
tgcgtcagct
ctgtgctggg
atcctgctgg
aactcaacag
agtgccaaat
tgctaatgga
gccttgggga
aggagctgaa
ctgcccggga

agggccgcca

tgtcactgac

agcggaacct

gggatctgga

9395995999

ctggcggcag

ctggcttgca

tagctgagcc

gttaaagatg

32

icontinued

gtacgtgggc
cttccagctc
tgccacacca
ccaccagata
gcacttcctg
Cctgcgcctc
gatggcctat
gacctacttc
ggagtttcag
tgtggagcca
ggctgccctc
89899ct989
Caagctgctg
89t9ttt999
gatgtttcga
CCt99969t9
gctcttcccc
gcttggctgc
96t9996889
ccactatgag
caacctggca
C89C998899
gctgcgcaca
cctgggccct
taccacactg
99999t9988
Cgaaggcctg
cgtggcgtac
gcacccttcc
ggtcttgcga
8989999889
caatagctgg
agatagccgg
cgaggtcagg
gcacctagct
ctgctccctc

agttgccctc

gtgaatcaat

cgctatggtg
cgcctcaacc
gctcagcgtg
gccgctgcct
catgccccca
aacttcagcg
gcagcccgaa
tctgaagagg
ctgctgcaca
99989t9C89
tacattgtgc
ctcgtgggcc
cctctgcggg
cgcatggtgg
989989988:
gagggccccc
atgttcatgg
cccatcaaga
ctgggccsgc
ttccagaacc
99t9t969ca
catgccctgg
ctcctgcctg
gaggcctgca
cggctgtcca
ggaaacacct
989ct98t99
aacggtgctg
ctggaactgc
9actt99999
9899t98859
gatcgggccc
ggtgccaccc
gccctcctgg
atgtgaccac

tagaaagatt

ctagggcatg

gcttcgggct

1560

1620

1580

1740

1800

1860

1920

1980

2040

2100

2150

2220

2280

2340

2400

2460

2520

2580

2640

2700

2760

2820

2880

2940

3000

3060

3120

3180

3240

3300

3350

3420

3480

3540

3600

3550

3720

3780

Jan. 3], 2019
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
33

icontinued
tggagatgga acatgcctcc tctccattca gctagaagga ccaaagcatg tggcatttgg 3940
atggccagag tgccctgaag caccactacc aaccttgcct ccccctcctc tcaaagagcc 3900
tctgactgtg tcaccaaggg gctcacatct tatgtctgcc atgccagggg tgtcgccatc 3950
cagatgtgtt ggaagcttcc cctcctgccc tatgctcacc tgtggacacc gaggatgccc 4020
tcacattggt gctttctcct Catcctcatg Ccccctttgc cacaatggta tgatggcttg 4080
gtagcccctc gaggcagatg Cacctgactt gctgctatta aaaagccgtg tgccttctac 4140
caaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 4158
<210> SEQ ID NO 2
<211> LENGTH: 975
<212> TYPE: PRT
<213> ORGANISM: Homo aapiens

<400> SEQUmCE: 2

Met Arg Trp Gly His His Lou Pro Arg Ala Ser Trp Gly Ser Gly Phe
1 5 10 15

Arg Arg Ala Lou Gln Arg Pro Asp Asp Arg llo Pro Pho Lou 115 His
20 25 30

Trp sor Trp Pro Lou Gln Gly Glu Arg Pro Pho Gly Pro Pro Arg Ala
35 4o 45

Phe Ile Arg His His Gly Ser Sor Val Asp Ser Ala Pro Pro Pro Gly
so 55 50

Arg His (31}! Arg Leu Phe Pro Se): Ala Ser Ala Th): Glu Ala Ile 6111
65 70 75 80

Arg His Arg Arg Asn Lou Ala Glu Trp Pho Sor Arg Lou Pro Arg Glu
35 90 95

Glu Arg Gln Pho Gly Pro Thr Pho Ala Lou Asp Thr Val His Val Asp
loo lo5 llo

Pro Val Ile Arg Glu Ser Thr Pro Asp Glu Leu Leu Arg Pro Pro Ala
115 120 125

Glu Leu Ala Leu Glu His Gln Pro Pro Gln Ala Gly Leu Pro Pro Leu
130 135 140

Ala Lou Ser Gln Lou Pho Asn Pro Asp Ala Q’s Gly Arg Arg Val Gln
145 150 155 150

Thr Val Val Lou Tyr Gly Thr Val Gly Thr Gly Lys Ser Thr Lou Val
165 170 175

Arg Lys Met Val Lou Asp Trp cys Tyr Gly Arg Lou Pro Ala Pho Glu
180 185 190

Leu Leu 116 Pro Phe Ser Cys Glu Asp Leu Ser Se): Leu Sly Pro Ala
195 200 205

Pro Ala Sor Lou Cys Gln Lou Val Ala Gln Arg Tyr Thr Pro Leu Lys
210 215 220

Glu Val Leu Pro Leu Met Ala Ala Ala Gly Ser His Leu Leu Phe Val
225 230 235 240

Lou His Gly Lou Glu His Lou Asn Lou Asp Pho Arg Lou Ala Gly Thr
245 250 255

Gly Leu Cys Ser Asp Pro Glu Glu Pro Gln Glu Pro Ala Ala Ile 116
250 255 270

Val Asn Lou Lou Arg Lys Tyr Met Lou Pro Gln Ala Ser 11o Lou Val
275 230 235
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
39

5 cont inued

ttaagcagct gatagcaccc ccacctccag ggaaagtgag ttcagagtcc ttggtctaat 7390
gcatctgtgt tgaaattgag gccttcccct gtgttcacct ttctgctctt tctcttttag 7440
cccaaggcta tgaaggcctc attcggtgct gggcatggtc actcctagca ttcctcactc 7500
tgttgctaac agcaacagca ataataataa gggttacaac ttactccata ccttactgtc 7550
tgccaggcat taagctaagt gctttacata tattaagtca tttaatcctc ataatgaccc 7620
tatgaaagag ataccatctc aacccaattg acagctggtt tgcaagatta ggagggatga 7680
aggacccagg ggacaatgcg agggaaaact ctgaccccgg ggccccaggc tggatgttct 7740
:cacgcctg: gaaccacagc ttaccacacg tctggagtta gggaccccac ttaaagtgag 7900
attttggctg gaggtggtgg atcataccta taatcccagc actttgggag accaaggcag 7960
aaggactgct tgaggccagg agttcaaaac cagtgtaggt aacagctaga ccctatctct 7920
acaaaaaatt taaaaattag ctgggtgtgg tggtatgtgc ctcaagttcc agctactcag 7990
gaggctgagg tgggaggatc acttgagcac aggagtttga agttacagtg agctatgatg 3040
gcaccactgc acttcagcct aggcaacaga gggagaccct gtctttaaag tacatagagg 3100
tttttcacac cascacatct ctgcccagtg tgccaacatc tgccacctgc tataatagta 9160
ctataacact castatgtaa ttaatgtagt ctcagggatg ttacgacaac atgattacaa 9220
ctatcacgtg tgtgcccagc caggctcaat gccccaggct gggcgaggtg gggcagggga 8280
cacagcctaa aatgccaggc ctcaggaagc catttggttt agcagacatt gtttattaaa 8340
ggagttacct atgccagatc gaaggcctaa gatgattaag acactatgag tgccttcaag 3400
tggttgggga cgttcatgat tgtggtacag acaaataggc tttcacatca ttcttttatg 3450
taatcataca acagatattt gcacctacat gtgcagagca ctgtgatagg cctcagtgac 9520
acagaataat acggcaaaga ccccacccga tgagccccct cccaccaccc accagtacag 9590
tagggggtgg tttaatggag tgttcctgga atatgaagtg ggggcaggca ttaggggtgg 8640
caaagggaca agtgtttatc tgatcagtta tgtactgttt ataataagta aatcagcaga 8700
gggggaataa tacttagaac Ctatagagag taaatctgac aagatgaaat gctgatgaaa 3750
atatggagga aatgaaactc tcatgggttt tgcagggaat Ctaagtcagt gctgtgttgt 3920
gaatgtaggt gtaccctttg aattcatatg ttgaatccta acccccaaag caatggcatt 3380
aagaggtggg gcctttgggg Ctgggtatgg tggctcatga Ctgtaatccc agcactttgg 3940
gatgctggca gggggcagat cacttgaagc caggagtctg agatcagcct ggccaacatg 9000
gtgaaacccc atctgtacta aaaatacaaa aattagccag gtgtgatggc gtacatctgt 9060
aatttcagcc actcgggagg ctgagacagg agaatagctt gaacccagta ggtggagatt 9120
tcagtgagcc gagatcgtgc cactgcactc cagcctgggt gacagagcga gactccatct 9190
caaaaaaata ataaagatgt ggggcctgtg ggaggtggtt aggtcatgag ggtggagatc 9240
atgaatgggg ttagcacctt ataaaacagg Cttgagggag Cccttctgtc ccttctacca 9300
tgtgtggatg cagtgagaag gcaccgtatc tctgaagcag agagcccgcc ctggacactg 9360
gatctgctgg caccttgatc ttggacttcc Cagcctctag aactgtgaga aataattttt 9420
tgttgtttac aaattaccca ggctaaggtg tttcattgta acctgaatgg accaagctgg 9490
tgtgaccctg ttggaaaact ggcagtatct accaaaagcc gaacatacgt ataaactgat 9540

ccagcagttc cactcctggg tatgtacacc acagaaagct atgtccaccg agacattggc 9500
(19) United States
(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2019/0030119 A1

Elias et al.

US 20190030119Al

(43) Pub. Date: Jan. 31, 2019

 

(54)

(71)

(72)

(73)

(21)
(22)

(63)

METHODS FOR DECREASING CHORD
LENGTH

ApplicantszBROWN UNIVERSITY, Providence,
RI (US); YALE UNIVERSITY, New
Haven, CT (US)

Inventors: Jack A. Elias, Providence, RI (US);
Chun Geun Lee, Woodbridge, CT
(US); Min-Jung Kang, Scarsdale, NY
(US)

Assignees: BROWN UNIVERSITY, Providence,
RI (US); YALE UNIVERSITY, New
Haven, CT (US)

Appl. No.: 16/059,445
Filed: Aug. 9, 2018

Related U.S. Application Data

Continuation of application No 15/065,230, ﬁled on
Mar. 9, 2016,

(60) Provisional application No. 62/130,811, ﬁled on Mar,
10, 2015,

Publication Classiﬁcation

Int. Cl.
A61K 38/17
GOIN 33/68

U.S. (fl.
CPC ....... A61K 38/177 (2013,01); 001N33/6372
(2013.01); G01N2800/52 (2013,01); GOIN
2800/122 (201301)

(51)
(2006.01)
(2006.01)

(52)

(57) ABSTRACT

The methods and assays described herein relate to the
diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of subjects with emphy-
sema, COPD, and/or cigarette-induced lung damage. In
some embodiments, the methods and assays relate to sub-
jects with a decrwsed level of NLRXl expression, In some
embodiments, the methods and assays relate to the admin-
istration of an agonist of NLRXl and/or an inhibitor of
MAVS,

Speciﬁcation includes a Sequence Listing.
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 2 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

   

   

    
    

 

 

 

 

 

E g
E m
‘. E
..
15 x
.1 n:
z _I
z
Céhtiéié " " " " "C‘OPD Controls (3th GOLD 2 SOLD 3
Fig. 1G Fig. 1H
1.2
4 1.2 **
E 1 ” NLRX1 1 MR)“
E .3 months
% 0‘8 ‘6 months
‘P 0.6
m.
E 0.4
E 0.2
0c

NLRX? +I+

 

_.
NameJD
oaooo

Mean Chord Length (mm)

 

Totai Cell Recovery (X103)

0

CS ~ ~
NLRX +/+ —/- +l+ ~/—

0
(/3

.. — + +
NLRX1 +/+ ~/- +l+ —/-

Fig. 2F

 

Fig. 20

Fig. 2E
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
35

scoutinued
690 695 700

Gly val Arg Met Thr Fro val Lys cys Thr val val Ala Ala val Leu
705 710 715 720

Gly Ser Gly Arg His Ala Leu Asp Glu Val Asn Leu Ala Ser Cya 6111
725 730 735

Leu Asp Pro Ala Gly Leu Arg Thr Leu Leu Pro Val Phe Leu Arg Ala
740 745 750

Arg Lys Leu Gly Leu Gln Leu Asn Ser Leu Gly Pro Glu Ala Cys Lys
755 760 765

Asp Leu Arg Asp Lau Lea Leu His Asp Gln cys Gln lle Thr Thr Leu
770 775 780

Arg Leu Ser Asm Asn Pro Leu Thr Ala Ala Gly val Ala Val Leu Met
“/85 790 795 800

Glu Gly Leu Ala Gly Asn Thr Se): Val Thr His Leu Ser Leu Leu His
805 910 915

Thr Gly Leu Gly Asp Glu Gly Leu Glu Leu Leu Ala Ala Gln Leu Asp
320 325 930

Arg Asn Arg Gln Leu Gln Glu Leu Asn Val Ala Tyr Asn Gly Ala Gly
835 840 845

Asp Thr Ala Ala Lau Ala Leu Ala Arg Ala Ala Arg Glu H15 Pro Ser
950 955 sec

Leu Glu Leu Leu His Leu Tyr Phe Asn Glu Leu Se): Ser Glu Sly Arg
865 870 975 890

G111 Val Leu Arg Asp Leu Gly Gly Ala Ala Glu Gly Gly Ala Arg Val
995 e90 395

Val Val Ser Leu Thr Glu Gly Thr Ala Val Ser Glu Tyr Trp Ser Val
900 905 910

lle Leu Ser Glu Val G111 Arg Asn Lem Asn Ser sz Asp Arg Ala Arg
915 920 925

Val Gln Arg His Leu Glu Leu Leu Leu Arg Asp Leu Glu Asp Ser Arg
930 935 940

Gly Ala Thr Leu Asn Pro Trp Arg Lys Ala Gln Leu Leu Arg Val Glu
945 950 955 950

Gly Glu Val Arg Ala Leu Leu Glu Gln Leu Gly Ser Ser Gly Ser
965 970 975

<210> SEQ ID No 3

<211> LENGTH: 11771

<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Homo sapiens

<400> SEQUWCE: 3

acatggccaa tggccgcgcg ctctgcccgc cccgcctcct cgctgcggga agggtcctgg so
gccccgggcg gcggtcgcca ggtctcaggg ccgggggtac ccgagtctcg tttcctctca 120
gtccatccac ccttcatggg gccagagccc tctctccaga atctgagcag caatgccgtt 180
tgctgaagac aagacctata agtatatctg ccgcaatttc agcaattttt gcaatgtgga 24o
tgttgtagag attctgcctt acctgccctg Cctcacagca agagaccagg atcgactgcg 300
ggccacctgc acactctcag ggaaccggga caccctctgg catctcttca atacccttca 350

gcggcggccc ggctgggtgg agtacttcat tgcggcactg aggggctgtg agctagttga 420

tctcgcggac gaagtggcct ctgtctacca gagctaccag cctcggacct cggaccgtcc 490
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
41

, cont inued

<210> SEQ ID No 4

<211> LENGTH: 540

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Homo sapiens

<400> SEQUWCE: 4

Met Pro Phe Ala Glu Aap Lys Thx Tyr Lya Tyr Ile Cys Arg Aan Phe
l 5 10 15

Sex Asn Phe Cys Asn Val Asp Val Val Glu Ile Leu Pro Tyr Leu Pro
20 25 30

Cys Leu Thr Ala Arg Asp Gln Asp Arg Leu Arg Ala Thr cys Thr Leu
35 4o 45

Ser Sly Aan Arg Aap Thr Leu Txp His Leu Phe Aan Thr Leu Gln Axg
50 55 60

Arg Pro Gly Trp Val Glu Tyr Phe Ile Ala Ala Leu Arg Gly cya Glu
55 7o 75 so

Leu Val Asp Leu Ala Aap Glu Val Ala Ser Val Tyx Gln Ser Tyr 6111
95 90 95

Pro Arg Thr Sex Asp Arg Pro Pro Asp Pro Leu Glu Pro Pro Sex Leu
100 105 110

Pro Ala Glu Arg Pro Gly Pro Pro Thr Pro Ala Ala Ala His ser Ile
115 120 125

Pro Tyr Aan Ser Cys Arg Glu Lys Glu Pro Ser Tyx Pro Met Pro Val
130 135 140

Gln Glu Thx Gln Ala Pro Glu Sex Pro Gly Glu Asn Ser Glu Gln Ala
145 150 155 160

Leu Gln Thr Leu Ser Pro Arg Ala Ile Pro Arg Asn Pro Asp Gly Gly
165 170 175

Pro Leu Glu ser ser ser Asp Leu Ala Ala Leu Ser Pro Leu Thr Ser
180 185 190

Ser Gly His Gln Glu Gln Asp Thx Glu Leu Gly Sex Thr His Thr Ala
195 200 205

Gly Ala Thx Ser Sex Leu Thr Pxo Ser Arg Gly Pro Val Ser Pro Sex
210 215 220

Val Sex Phe Gln Pro Leu Ala Arg Sex Thr Pro Arg Ala Sex Arg Leu
225 230 235 240

Pro Gly Pro Thr Gly Sex Val Val Sex Thx Gly Thr Sex Pha Sex Ser
245 250 255

ser Ser Pro Gly Leu Ala ser Ala Gly Ala Ala Glu Gly Lya Gln Gly
260 265 270

Ala Glu Sex Asp Gln Ala Glu Pxo Ile Ile Cys Sex Ser Gly Ala Glu
275 290 285

Ala Pro Ala Asn Sex Leu Pxo Sex Lys Val Pxo Thx Thr Leu Met Pxo
290 295 300

Val Asn Thr Val Ala Leu Lys Val Pxo Ala Asn Pro Ala Sex Val Sex
305 310 315 320

Thr val Pro ser Lya Lem Pro Thr ser Ser Lya Pro Pro Gly Ala val
325 330 335

Pro Ser Asn Ala Leu Thr Asn Pxo Ala Pro Ser Lys Leu Pro Ile Asn
340 345 350

Sex Thx Arg Ala Gly Met Val Pro Sex Lys Val Pro Thr Sex Met Val
355 350 365
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
40

5 cont inued

aagaatgttt ctaaccacac gctgactgta gccccaaacc tgaaacaacc caaatgtcca 9660
tccaccaacc caaatgtcca tccacagttg aagctacagt gaagtcacag ggtcgaatac 9720
tactgcacag caacgaatat gaatgaaaat atcgctatgc acagcaacat ggataaattt 9780
cacagacatg aggtcaagca aaagaggtca gagtcctcat catcaagaga gaattcattg 9840
tatgattctc ttcctacaaa aagtacagaa ataagcaaaa Ctgatccatg gtgttagaag 9900
ccaggggaac agttaacagg ggagggatac tggggagggg Catcctggag tgctggtcta 9950
cctcatctgg gtgttgattt cacgagtatt gtcagtttgt ttccagactc cctgttggag 10020
atgtggaaat aaaaaccacc taaacaagag cagagaggcc atttggtcaa agtttgcaaa 10000
ggagtcagcc atgattgctt gtatttggca ggggtcaaag gcaggcaggg actgtgaaat 10140
gttatagtgg aaaaaaaggg aaggctctgg gtgtgctgtg attggagatt gttggcatgg 10200
ggacagagcg gactaactgg aggggcatct ttggttggtt gggggggtat atttggcttt 10250
ctctggttgg tctggagttg gaagaggggg tgtggtggct ggggattggg aagaagctgg 10320
cagccactaa gttcagactg ttctgggtcc gattgctgct gaggctgtgg tttggcttcc 10380
ttggcttccc aggctggtca tgggtttctg gccagagtct attgtcatat gtggcctggc 10440
cattgtccag ttgtatgttc agtctcttgg aaggaagggt attgactctg agaggggcca 10500
ccatcgctgg aatgggggac acacagtact tcctccagct gcctacaccc ccctagggtc 10550
agtggcgcct gcctgtgagg gtgagcccaa tggctagagg gctctgctcc aagtcattgc 10520
ttactacacc cacaaacatt cttcgttctt taaggcctaa cttaaagccc agatcctaca 10680
ggaaaccttg attagacccc tctctttatc aagcttccta agatcaaacc ctgcttttgt 10740
gtaaatgctg acctccttgc ctacatttta aaaacctaga gctgggcatg atggccccag 10900
cctgtaatcc cagtgattca ggagactgag gtgggaggat tgctagaagc caggagttcg 10860
agaccagcct gggtaacata gctagaccac atctcttaaa ataaaatagt taatttagcc 10920
aggcatgatg atatatgcct gtagtcccaa ctacttggaa ggctgaggtg tgaggatctt 10990
tgagcccggg aggtcgaggc tacagtaagc tatgatctca Ccactgtact ccagcctggg 11040
tgacagagcg agacccagac tcaaaaaata aaaataaaaa Ccctgaatat cttccttcta 11100
cttcttcagt gctgttttta tttaaaaaaa aaaaaaacca gccaaaacca caacttttta 11150
ctgaagtgta atgtaaatgc tgtaaaaggc agtgaaaggc acaagggagg tggaggggta 11220
ggaagggtgg aagtggcggg aggaagtggc agggcaggca aaatgaaggg aagccctggg 11200
ccctcgccct gcatccgcag ccagctccca ctttcctcac cctccaggac ctgtaaactg 11340
tgaggctgga ccagttatgc caaatctgtc ctcccccaga gctcagtccc tctgcccttg 11400
ggtgtccttg gcacaaggca ggctaggctg caccagcttc ctccatctcc gtcctgcctc 11450
ccccatcccc aggtgccatt cccacaccat ctgaatcact gatttcctcg caatcagacg 11520
ctatcttcca gttaatcact tcgcttgtat ttaacataag aaagaaaaac cctttcatta 11580
tcacatacag ctggaaatcg gcttcttgca ggaggcgtat ccaaaggaat tggagaagag 11540
ataaactggt aattggtgaa agaattactt taattttttt tcctacttgc tgtcatgatg 11700
atgtccttag aattgtgagc ccgtggacac ttctgtacaa taaatctgct attattactt 11750

ctagaactac a 11771
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
34

, cont inued

Thr Thr Arg Pro Ser Ala Ile Gly Arg Ile Pro Ser Lya Tyr val Gly
290 295 300

Arg Tyr Gly Glu Ile cya Gly Phe ser Asp Thr Aan Lem Gln Lys Leu
305 310 315 320

Tyr Phe Gln Leu Arg Leu Asn Gln Pro Tyr Cys 61}! Tyr Ala Val 61}!
325 330 335

Gly Ser Gly Val Ssr Ala Thr Pro Ala Gln Arg Asp His Leu Val Gln
340 345 350

Met Leu Ser Arg Asn Lem Glu Gly His His Gln Ile Ala Ala Ala cys
355 350 365

Phe Leu Pro ser Tyr cya Trp Leu Val cys Ala Thr Len His Phe Leu
370 375 380

His Ala Pro Thr Pro Ala Gly Gln Thr Leu Thr Ser Ile Tyr Thr Ser
385 390 395 400

Phe Leu Arg Leu Asn Phe Ser Gly Glu Thr Leu Asp Ser Thr Asp Pro
405 410 415

Ser Asn Leu Ser Leu Met Ala lyr Ala Ala Arg Thr Met Gly Lys Leu
420 425 430

Ala Tyr Glu Gly Val ser ser Arg Lya Thr Tyr Phe ser Glu Glu Asp
435 440 445

Val cys Gly cya Leu Glu Ala Gly lle Arg Thr Glu Glu Glu Phe Gln
450 455 450

Leu Leu His 112 Phe Arg Arg Asp Ala Leu Arg Phe Phe Leu Ala Pro
455 470 475 490

Cys Val Glu Pro Gly Arg Ala Gly Thr Phs Val Phe Thr Val Pro Ala
435 490 495

Met Gln Glu Tyr Leu Ala Ala Leu Tyr Ile val Leu Gly Leu Arg Lys
500 505 510

Thr Thr Leu G111 Lys Val Gly Lys Glu val Ala Glu Lem val Gly Arg
515 520 525

Val Sly Glu Asp Val Ssr Leu Val Leu Gly Ile Met Ala Lys Leu Leu
530 535 540

Pro Leu Arg Ala Leu Pro Leu Leu Phe Asn Leu lle Lys Val Val Pro
545 550 555 560

Arg Val Phe Gly Arg Met Val Gly Lys Ser Arg Glu Ala Val Ala Gln
565 570 575

Ala Mel: val Lem Glu Met Phe Arg Glu Glu Asp Tyr Tyr Asn Asp Asp
580 585 590

Val Leu Asp G111 Met Gly Ala Ser lle Leu Gly val Glu Gly Pro Arg
595 500 505

Arg His Pro Asp Glu Pro Pro Glu Asp Glu Val Phe Glu Leu Phe Pro
610 615 520

Met Phs Met Gly Gly Lem Leu Ser Ala His Asn Arg Ala val Leu Ala
625 630 635 540

Gln Leu Gly Cys Pro 112 Lys Asn Leu Asp Ala Leu Glu Asn Ala Gln
645 650 655

Ala Ils Lys Lys Lys Leu Gly Lys Lsu Gly Arg Gln Val Leu Pro Pro
550 555 570

ser Glu Leu Lea Asp His Leu Phe Phe His Tyr Glu Phe Gln Asn Gln
675 680 635

Arg Phe Ser Ala Glu Val Leu Ser 591‘ Leu Arg Gln Leu Asn Leu Ala
Patent Application Publication

25
553.0 ** i <(4.0 A
$5 E v£20
$3.0 4’
€20 153 $15
(5
a (92-0 dm
311.0 9 z
*7 21.0 3
a. - 1-— 5
g 2
2 O ”J o 0
cs - ~ + + cs (:8 - - +
NLRX1+I+ .1. +/+ —/. NLRX1+I+ 4' +/+ 4- NLRX1+I+ —/— +z+ 4»
Fig. 2G Fig. 2H Flg- 2|
Pro
Caspase
120 ** ‘4‘ Active

ooB
on

o

lL-16 (pg/ mg protein)
N vb 07
O O

O
(I)
o

    

+

NLRX1+I+ ~/- +/+ -/~

Fig. 2K

§

...
m
0

Total Calf Recovery (X103)
w §
0

0
CS
MAVS

+i+ 4‘

Fig. 3A

+l+

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
  

Caspasev‘i (P
Pro lL-1
Active IL~1

Pro lL-1
Active lL-1
ﬁ~Aclin

Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 3 of 12

  

;,cs°~

US 2019/0030119 A1

30 M n

25
20
15
10

5

L-1B (ng mg protein)

      

NLRX1+I+ -/- +/+ —I-

Fig. 2.1

or;
O

G)
O

N
0

Mean Chord Length (um)
&
o

 

C8 C8 - + +
ControEVector 4‘ + . .
NLRM H“ W 4” NLRX1 Vector — . + +
F'g- 2L Fig. 2M
MAVS+I+

1/.

 

Fig. 3B
Patent Application Publication

cxcma (pg/mi)

 
   
  

 

Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 7 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

    

 

0
Controi 1 2 3 4
00.995th
(n=33)
Fig 9
506 500
1‘ 400 t 400
é :5
g 300 g 300
m M
5 200 S 200
Q a
U 100 0 100
0 {I
0 >>>>>> 50 >>>>> 100 p p p >150 0,0 0.5 0.0 1.5 20 25
‘FEV1 (%), post-BB (n=35) NLRX1 mRNA
Fig. 10A Fig- 108
58
._.. p = 0.0001 :
g 40 r = 0.624 , E
83 . E
:36 ‘ . :3
S . _i
029 . 0 0
§ 0

  

 

10
0246810 029406080100
BODE Index SGRQ Score
Fig. 100 Fig. 100
US 2019/0030119 A1

Inclusion criteria were a FEVllFVC ratio of less than 0.7 for
the COPD group, and normal spirometry for the control
group. This study was approved by the institutional review
board of Asan Medical Center (#2011-0711) and written
informed consent was obtained from all patients.

[0337] RNA preparation and sequencing for human stud-
ies For the Yale cohort. the mRNAs were extracted from
fresh frozen lung tissues from the 7 controls and 36 patients
with COPD in the NIH-sponsored Lung Tissue Research
Consortium (LTRC) cohort. cDNA synthesis and real-time
reverse-transcriptase-polymerase-chain-reaction (RT-PCR)
assays were performed with whole RNA extracted from
fresh frozen human lung tissues using Bio-Rad kits as per
the manufacturer’ 5 instmctions The human NLRXl primers
from Primerbank(3) were utilized for the evaluation of the
Yale cohort. For the Asan cohort, total RNA was isolated
from apparently normal fresh frozen lung tissue that was
remote from the lung cancer RNA integrity was assessed
using an Agilent BioanalyzerTM and RNA purity was
assessed using a NanoDropTM spectrophotometer. One [Lg of
total RNA was used to generate cDNA libraries using the
TruSeqTM RNA library kit. The protocol consisted of poly
A-selected RNA extraction, RNA fragmentation, reverse
transcription using random hexamer primers, and 100 bp
paired-end sequencing using the Illumina HiSeqTM 2000
system. The libraries were quantiﬁed using quantimtive PCR
according to the quantitative PCR Quantiﬁcation Protocol
Guide and qualiﬁed using an Agilen Technologies 2100
BioanalyzerTM. For quality control, read quality was veriﬁed
using FastQCTM and read alignment was veriﬁed using
PicardTM. Differential gene expression (DEG) analysis was
performed using TopHatTM and CuﬂlinksTM soﬁware(4). To
estimate expression levels, the RNA-seq reads were mapped
to the human genome using TopHatTM (version 1.4.l)(5),
and quantiﬁed using CuflflinksTM soﬁware (2.0.0)(6) Cuf-
flinksTM soﬁware was run with the UCSC th9 human
genome and transcriptome references The numbers of iso-
form and gene transcripts were calculated and the relative
abundance of transcripts was measured in fragments per
kilobase of exon per million fragments mapped (FPKM)
using Cuﬂlinks soﬁware. Expression lewels were extracted
as a FPKM value for each gene of each sample using
Cuﬂ‘linksTM soﬁware. Genes with FPKM values of 0 across
all samples were excluded. Filtered data were subject to
upper quantile normalization. Statistical signiﬁcance was
determined using Student’s t-test. The false discovery rate
(FDR) was controlled by adjusting p values using the
Benjamini-Hochberg algorithm.

[0338] Laboratory Assessments. Separation of the cytosol-
and mitochondria-enriched fractions was undertaken using
QproteomeTM mitochondrial isolation kit (Qiagen) as per the
manufacturer’s instructions lmmunoblot analyses were
undertaken using antibodies for NLRXl (Proteintech), cas-
pase-1 (Cell Signaling), lL-lB (Santa Cruz), lL-18 (Santa
Cruz) and [3-actin (Cell Signaling) Imrnunohistochemstiry
for NLRXl was undertaken to localize the expression of
NLRXl. For the evaluation of lung morphometry, subgroups
of 5-7 mice were used for the evaluation of mean chord
length and the surface area of the lungs following stereo-
logical analysis of the lungs according to the ATS/ERS
guidelines(7, 8) Brieﬂy, the left lung was inﬂated with 05%
low temperature-melting agarose in 10% buffered formalin
ﬁxative at a constant pressure of 25 cm as described previ-
ously (9, 10). After the ﬁxation. lung volume (V L) of the left

Jan. 31, 2019

lung was determined by the water immersion method. The
images were taken equally spaced and systematically placed
meander-like over the Whole surface of the lung sections.
Pictures were quantitatively analyzed by using a test system
of points and lines superimposed over the digital images via
the STEPanizerTM program (11). The intersecting points
falling on alveolar space (Pa), alveolar ducts (Pd), and points
falling on septum (Ps) were counted separately among total
points (Ptotal). Point counts yielded relative volume densi-
ties and alveolar surface area (S) was calculated by the
following formula; (1) Airspace fraction (FA):(Pa+Pd+Ps)/
Ptotal; (2) Airspace volume (VA):FAXVL; (3) S:4VA/Lm
(mean linear intercept) In addition, mean chord length of
the air space was evaluated as described previously by our
laboratory(9, 10). Lung tissue lysates were prepared and the
levels of tissue CXCL13, lL—lB and lL-18 (R&D Systems)
were determined using commercial ELISA kits as per the
manufacturer’s instmctions For the evaluation of apoptotic
cell death/DNA injury, end labeling of exposed 3‘-OH ends
of DNA fragments in paraﬁin embedded tissue was under-
taken with the TUNEL in situ cell death detection kit AP
(Roche Diagnostics) using the instructions provided by the
manufacturer. To overexpress NLRXl gene in Vivo, the gene
was integrated into lentiviral vector. The lentiviral vector
backbones used in this study were purchased from System
Biosciences Inc. (SBI, CA, USA, Catalog #CD5 1 1 8-1). The
NLRXl cDNA clone was purchased from Origene (Origene,
MD, USA, Catalog #MC204753). pPACKHl-XL HIV Len-
tivector Packaging Kit (SBI, CA, USA, Catalog #LV510A-
1) and Virus precipitation solution (SBI, CA, USA, Catalog
#LVSlOA-l) were used to package the lentiviral vectors,
according to the manufacturer’s instructions The lentiviral
titer kit (SBI, CA, USA, Catalog #LV961A-1) was used to
determine the amount of viral vectors according to the
manufacturer’s instructions lntranasal administration of
either the lenti-NLRXl, or lenti-control vectors was per-
formed on 6-wk-old C57BL/6J male mice. The amount of
l><10’3 TU of lenti-NLRXI or [anti-control vectors per
mouse was administered. CS exposure experiement was
started from 2 weeks after intranasal treatment.

REFERENCES

[0339] 1. LTRC. Lung Tissue Research Consortium. avail-
able at nhlbi.nihgov/resources/ltrc.htm.

[0340] 2. Shi, Y., Cao, J., Gao, J., Zheng, L., Goodwin, A.,
An, C. H., Patel, A., Lee, J. S., Duncan, S. R., Kaminski,
N., et al. 2012. Retinoic acid-related orphan receptor-
alpha is induced in the setting of DNA damage and
promotes pulmonary emphysema. Am J Respir Crit Care
Med 186:412-419.

[0341] 3. PrimerBank. available at pga.mgh.harvard.edu/
primerbankl.

[0342] 4. Trapnell, C., Roberts, A., Goff, L., Pertea, G.,
Kim, D., Kelley, D. R., Pimentel, H., Salzberg, S. L.,
Rinn, J. L., and Pachter, L. 2012. Differential gene and
transcript expression analysis of RNA-seq experiments
with TopHat and Cuﬁlinks. Nat Protoc 7:562-578.

[0343] 5. Trapnell, C., Pachter, L., and Salzberg, S. L.
2009. TopHat: discovering splice junctions with RNA-
Seq. Bioirgformatics 25:1105-1111.

[0344] 6. Trapnell, C., Williams, B. A., Pertea, G., Mor-
tazavi, A., Kwan, G., van Baren, M. J., Salzberg, S. L.,
Wold, B. J., and Pachter, L. 2010. Transcript assembly and
quantiﬁcation by RNA-Seq reveals unannotated tran-
scripts and isofonn switching during cell differentiation.
NatBiotechn01281511-515.
US 2019/0030119A1 Jan. 31,2019
[0345] 7. Hsia, C. C, Hyde, D. M., Ochs, M., and Weibel, smoke selectively enhances viral PAMP- and virus-in-

E. R. 2010. An oﬁicial research policy statement of the duced pulmonary innate immune and remodeling

American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Soci- responses in mice. J Clin Invest 118:2771-2784.

ety: standards for quantitative assessment of lung struc- [0348] 10. Kang, M. J., Homer, R. J,, Gallo,A., Lee, C, G.,

ture. Am JRespir Crit Care Med 181:394-418. Crothers, K. A., Cho, S. J., Rochester, C., Cain, H.,
[0346] 8. Muhlfeld, C., and Ochs, M. 2013. Quantitative Chupp, G., Yoon, H. 1., et a1. 2007. lL-18 is induced and

microscopy of the lung: a problem-based approach Part IL-18 receptor alpha plays a critical role in the pathogen-

2: stereological parameters and study designs in various esis of cigarette smoke-induced pulmonary emphysema

diseases of the respiratory tract. Am J Physiol Lung Cell and inﬂammation. J Immunol 178:1948-1959.

Mol Physiol 3051L205-221. [0349] 11. Tschanz, S. A., Burri, R H., and Weibel, E. R.
[0347] 9. Kang, M. J,, Lee, C. G., Lee, J, Y, Dela Cruz, C. 2011,Asimp1e tool for stereological assessment ofdigital

S., Chen, Z. J ., Enelow, R., and Elias, J. A. 2008, Cigarette images: the STEPanizer. J Microsc 243247-59,

SEQUENCE LISTING

<160> NUMBER OF SEQ 10 nos: 4

<210> SEQ ID NO 1

<211> LmG'ri-i: 4153

<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Homo sapiens

<400> SEQUENCE: 1

agtactagcg gcagtgcccg ngggatgga 99639919399 ggggacgatg gagggacggg 60

tggcgccggg gttccagccc tgcgcctgct ccggagcacc gggcccctct cgctgacccc 120

ctcgtcccag gaccccgcag gcccgagtgc ctgggctcgt cctctttcgc gcccgctgcc 190

aggtgccagg gccgcgcagg cgggcggagg tgggcaggaa gcgccacgcc gaggagccgg 240

ggactctggg agctagcggg agacgccggc gtccgcccag ccgacccctc tgggccgcgg 300

chacggctc chgaactgg gcagccgcgg gtaaaggcct agcgggcttg ataacccctg 360

Cgccctggct gggaggccgc getgagcggg gsgcagggcg ggccggggga ggaggctgtg 420

caagggccgc ggggagatcc cggccgagaa cgagagggac ggagctgggc gctgaatggc 400

gggcgttctg gcaagtctcc ccctgcgttc ccgaggccac ccgaaagtag gagagctgtt 54o

tgggacccag tttggtggag gagctctgga cctgtaggaa caccgcccct gacagaagtc 600

ggtcctaggc Cccccaggct ctgaccttct ttcccaggat gaggtggggc caccatttgc 660

Ccagggcctc ttggggctct ggttttagaa gagcactcca gcgaccagat gatcgtatcc 720

Ccttcctgat Ccactggagt tggccccttc aaggggagcg tccctttggg ccccctaggg 730

cctttatacg ccaccacgga agctcggtag atagcgctcc cccacccggg aggcatggac 040

ggctgttccc cagcgcctct gcaactgaag ctatacagcg gcaccgccgg aacctggctg 900

agtggttcag ccggctgccc agggaggagc gccagtttgg cccaaccttt gccctagaca 960

cggtccacgt tgaccctgtg atccgcgaga gtacccctga tgagctactt cgcccacccg 1020

ngagctggc Cctggagcat cagccacccc aggccgggct ccccccactg gccttgtctc 1030

agctctttaa Cccggatgcc tgtgggcgcc gggtgcagac agtggtgctg tatgggacag 1140

tgggcacagg caagagcacg ctggtgcgca agatggttct ggactggtgt tatgggcggc 1200

tgccggcctt cgagctgctc atccccttct cctgtgagga cctgtcatcc ctgggccctg 1250

ccccagcctc cctgtgccaa cttgtggccc agcgctacac gcccctgaag gaggttctgc 1320

ccctgatggc tgctgctggg tcccacctcc tccttgtgct ccatggctta gagcatctca 1390

acctcgactt ccggctggca ggcacgggac tttgtagtga cccggaggaa ccgcaggaac 1440

Cagctgctat Catcgtcaac ctgctgcgca aatacatgct gcctcaggcc agcattctgg 1500
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 6 of 12 US 2019/0030119 A1

 

 

é
E
§
§
Cnmwi 1 2 3 4 Fig. 7B
COPD Stage (n=43)
Fig. 7A

   

<

E <
5 E
E .4
2 §
2

~o ,50,,,,,1oo 150 ' o 3 s 9

DLCO (n=36) BOSE lnéex {11:43)

Fig. 8A Fig. SB

NLRXl mRNA

 

O 2 4 S 8 10
80%? Scale at
Termination (mas)

Fig. 80
Patent Application Publication

on
380

Mean Chord Length (pm)
N
O

 

0
CS — - + +
MAVS +l+ -/~ +/+-/~

Fig. 30

 

MAVS +l+ vl- +I+ —/—

 

 

Fig. 3F

E80 ** *3:
e

“€60

C

3

1340

2

220

E

080 . . + + +

MAVS +l+ +/+ —/. +/+ +/+ .1.
NLRX1+I+ wl- -/- H+ v/~ -/-

Fig. 3|

M *4:

 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

§
K 2.0
E
g 1.5
“2-?
g 1.0
d. 0.5
2
2 0 .
CS . . + +
MAVS 44+ 4» +l+ -f-
Fig. 30
u. 1
$15
0;
5: 7
E 1.x)
2
ob.
30.5.
9
z
E n
CS ,. . a + +
MAVS +l+ ~/~ +I+ -/~
Fig. 36
20 ««
$7
E15
0
ﬁ
.410
LL!
g 5
b.
0
CS . . ~ + + +

MAVS +l+ +l+ —/. +,’+ +j+ ._/.
NLRX1+I+ -/— —/» +/+ .,I. -I—

Fig. 3.1

Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 4 of 12

US 2019/0030119 Al

Acﬁve
Cas ase
(P2 )

Pro iL-18

   
 

Active 11.—
9~Actin

CS -
MAVS +/+ +l+ v1~ —/~

Fig. 3E

 

*‘X

 

-actin mRNA
7‘ 7‘
m

LRX’iCIF
in

N
o

. . + +
MAVS +l+ -/— +/+ -/-

Fig. 3H

0
(I)

 

 

 

g 140 **

20

C80 _ _ — + + +
MAVS +/+ *4“! —/~ +l+ +./+ ’/~
NLRX1+l+—/— ./. +/+ —/- —/—

Fig. 3K
US 2019/0030119 A1

capacity. The BODE index stands for body mass index
(BMI), obstruction, dyspnea and exercise capacity. The
SGRQ score denotes Saint George Respiratory Question-
naires score. The BORG scale at termination is the extent of
perceived patient exertion that can be estimated by the Borg
scale at the termination of exercise.

[0332] (a) LTRC Cohort

Jan. 3], 2019

29

controls (n:63) were deﬁned as the subjects who have no
evidence of chronic lung disease as well as normal pulmo-
nary function tests including lung volumes. The subjects
with COPD had varying levels of emphysema which were
measured by quantitative CT using HU<—950 as a cutoff,
The subjects with COPD were further stratiﬁed by the
amount of quantitative emphysema with the three categories

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COPD“
Charactenslicg Control GOLD 1 GOLD 2 GOLD 3 GOLD 4
Number 7 6 10 10 10
age (yr) 57.7 a 10.7 73.7 2 6.9 66.3 2 9.7 64.2 2 6.9 54.0 2 7.2
Gender (Male:Fema1e) (2:5) (5:1) (10:0) (7:3) (6:4)
Smokers (Non-smokers) 3 (4) 6 10 10 10
Smoking history - pack-yr 15.4 2: 19.5 36.5 2: 10.8 54.1 2: 24.6 62.0 x 25.7 51.8 x 38.2
FEVA (%), Pre—BD 93.0 a 12.1 82.7 a 10.3 61.6 e 6.9 32.2 a 4.2 21.5 a 7.7
FEVI (%), Post BD 98.2 a 12.4 89.2 e 6.9 67.7 5.6 34.2 2 3.3 19.8 2 2.8
DLCO 96.4 a 26.6 80.4 a 16.9 51.75 2: 24.6 31.3 x 6.3 39.2 x 16.6
6 minute Walking— 413.5 2: 43.8 321. 2:, 35.6 318.5 2: 168.9 237.2 x 88.9 270.5 x 69.6
Distance
BODE Index 0.1:: 0.4 1.12:1.1 2.9 2: 2.6 6.8 x 1.6 6.8 x 1.1
SGRQ Score 5.3 a: 9.8 18.1 a: 20.6 36.9 a: 27.7 67.0 210.9 59.2 215.1
BORG Scale a1 0.8 a: 0.3 1.0 a: 1.4 3.3 a: 1.4 4.3 2 1.9 4.9 2 2.6
Termination
NLRX] mRNA 1.22 a: 0.73 1.35 a: 0.39 1.22 a: 0.63 0.78 2 0.29 0.73 2 0.28
(Standardized)
[0333] (b) Pittsburgh Cohort
<1% >40%

Control emphysema 140% emphysema emphysema
Characteristic (n = 63) (n = 20) (n = 51) (n = 26)
Age 65.8 2: 10.3 67.9 2: 8.4 68.4 x 8.4 56.2 2: 7.2
Female Gender 27 (43%) 8 (40%) 17 (33%) 16 (62%)
Race 2 African- 20 Caucasian 1 African-American 26 Caucasian

American
58 Caucasian 50 Caucasian

3 omer
PaeleYeam 26.3 a: 34.3 56.1 3: 31.2 65.1 2 40.0 50.8 a: 25.6
FEVl (% predicted) 97.4 e 9.2 63.5 a 12.0 60.3 : 13.9 24.2 e 8.2
FVC (% predicted) 93.3 2 11.8 74.9 212.7 83.4 2 15.7 56.0 2 18.7
DLCO (% 81.9 a 16.3 70.4 2 21.8 62.4 a 16.1 31.5 e 8.5
predicted)
HU <— 950 (%) 0.7 x 1.1 0.4 x 0.3 4.2 x 2.5 48.7 x 6.9
[0334] (c) Asan Cohort
Characteristic Control GOLD 1 GOLD 2 GOLD 3
Number (M.F) 94 (94:0) 45 (45:0) 53 (53:0) 1 (1:0)
age (mean, STD) 60.6 e 9.4 68.3 e 6.1 66.9 e 6.5 61
Smoker (NS:CS) (94:0) (45:0) (53:0) (1:0)
PKYrs (mean, STD) 34.8 2: 17.1 49.5 2: 19.4 46.3 2: 24.1 40
FEVl (%), Pre—BD (mean, STD) 91.0 2: 12.4 83.7 a 8.3 63.5 2: 7.6 28
FEVl (%), Post 131’ (mean, STD) 94.3 2: 12.8 89.2 a 6.8 68.4 2: 6.7 34
DLm (mean, STD) 92.9 a: 12.9 78.3 a: 13.9 76.1 3: 14.6 86
NLRX] mnseripmme (mean, STD) 2.22 a: 1.49 1.69 a: 1.34 1.39 a: 0.87 1.06

 

[0335] Supplemental Methods

[0336] Study Populations. Three cohorts were used in
these studies. In the Yale cohort, fresh frozen lung tissues
from 7 controls and 36 patients with COPD were obtained
from the Lung Tissue Research Consortium (LTRC)(1), as
described in the main text. For the Pittsburgh cohort, lung
tissues were obtained as previously described(2). Brieﬂy,

including <l%, which denotes less than 1% emphysema
(n:22); 1-10%, which denotes a low level of emphysema
between 1 and 10 percent (n:45); and the most severe cases,
with more than 40% emphysema (n:27). The characteristics
of these patients can be seen in Table 1b. For the Asan
cohort, subjects were patients who required resection for
lung cancer and who were registered in the Asan Biobank.
US 2019/0030119 A1

[0301] 7. Eltom, Si, Stevenson, C S., Rastrick, J., Dale,
N., Raemdonck, K., Wong, 8., Catley, M. C., Belvisi, M.
G., and Birrell, M. A. 2011. P2X7 receptor and caspase 1
activation are central to airway inﬂammation observed
after exposure to tobacco smoke, PLoS One 6: e24097,

[0302] 8. Nunnari, J., and Suomalainen, A. 2012. Mito-
chondria: in sickness and in health, Cell 148:1145-1159.

[0303] 9. West, A. P., Shadel, G. S., and Ghosh, S. 2011.
Mitochondria in innate immune responses. Nat Rev
Immunol 11:389-402.

[0304] 10. Amoult, D., Soares, F., Tattoli, 1., and Girardin,
S. E. 2011. Mitochondria in innate immunity, EMBO Rep
12:901-910.

[0305] 11. Wedzicha, J. A. 2004. Role of viruses in exac-
erbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Proc
Am 77mm: Soc 1:115-120.

[0306] 12. Seemungal, T., Harper-Owen, R,, Bhowmik,
A., Moric, 1., Sanderson, (3., Message, 8, Maccallum, P.,
Meade, T. W., Jeﬂiies, Dr J., Johnston, S. L., et a1. 2001.
Respiratory viruses, symptoms, and inﬂammatory mark-
ers in acute exacerbations and stable chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 164:1618-
1623.

[0307] 13. Belgnaoui, S. M., Paz, S., and Hiscott, J. 2011.
Orchestrating the interferon antiviral response through the
mitochondrial antiviral signaling (MAVS) adapter. Curr
Opin Immunal 232564-5721

[0308] 14. Allen, 1. C., Moore, C, B., Schneider, M., Lei,
Y., Davis, B. K., Scull, M. A., Gris, D,, Roney, K. E,,
Zirnrnermann, A. G, Bowzard, J. B., et al. 2011. NLRXl
protein attenuates inﬂammatory responses to infection by
interfering with the RIG-l-MAVS and TRAF6-NF-kap-
paB signaling pathways. Immunity 34:854-865.

[0309] 151 Moore, C. B., Bergstralh, D. T., Duncan, J. A.,
Lei, Y., Morrison, T. B., Zimmermann, A. G., Accavitti-
Loper, M. A., Madden, V. J., Sun, L., Ye, Z., et al. 2008.
NLRX] is a regulator of mitochondrial antiviral immu-
nity. Nature 451:573-577.

[0310] 16. Lei, Y, Wen, 11, Yu, Y., Taxman, D. J., Zhang,
L., Widman, D. G.. Swanson. K. V., Wen, K. W., Dama-
nia, B., Moore, C, B., et al. 2012. The mitochondrial
proteins NLRX] and TUFM form a complex that regu-
lates type 1 interferon and autophagy. Immunity 36:933-
946.

[0311] 17. Litsiou, E., Semitekolou, M., Galani, 1. B.,
Morianos, 1., Tsoutsa, A., Kara, P., Rontogianni, D.,
Bellenis, 1., Konstantinou, M., Potaris, K., et a1. 2013.
CXCL13 Production in B cells via TLR/Lymphotoxin
Receptor Signaling are Involved in Lymphoid Neogenesis
in COPD. Am J Respir Crit Care Med.

[0312] 181 Hautamaki, R. D., Kobayashi, Dr K, Senior, R.
M., and Shapiro, S. D. 1997. Requirement for macro-
phage elastase for cigarette smoke-induced emphysema in
mice. Science 277:2002-2004.

[0313] 19. MacNee, W., and Tuder, R. M. 2009. New
paradigms in the pathogenesis of chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease 1, Proc Am Ilwrac Soc 6:527-531.

[0314] 20. Decramer, M., Janssens, W., and Miravitlles,
M. 2012 Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease Lancet
379:1341-1351,

[0315] 211 Cosio, Mr G, Saetta, Mr, and Agusti, At 2009.
Immunologic aspects of chronic obstructive pulmonary
disease. N Engl JMed 360:2445-2454.

Jan. 31, 2019

[0316] 22. Taraseviciene—Stewart, Li, and Voelkel, Ni F.
2008. Molecular pathogenesis of emphysema. J Clin
Invest 118:394-402.

[0317] 23. Tuder, R. M., and Petrache, 1. 2012, Pathogen-
esis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, J Clin
Invest 122:2749-2755

[0318] 24. Celli, B. R. 2012 Chronic obstructive pulmo-
nary disease and lung cancer: common pathogenesis,
shared clinical challenges. Proc Am Ilwrac Soc 9:74-79.

[0319] 25. Babizhayev, M. A., and Yegorov, Y. E. 2011.
Smoking and health: association between telomere length
and factors impacting on human disease, quality of life
and life span in a large population-based cohort under the
effect of smoking duration. Fundam Clin Pharmacol
25:425-442.

[0320] 26. Amson, Y., Shoenfeld, Y, and Amital, H, 2010,
Effects of tobacco smoke on immunity, inﬂammation and
autoimmunity. JAutoimmun 34:]258-265.

[0321] 27. Kark, J. D., Lebiush, M., and Rannon, L. 1982,
Cigarette smoking as a risk factor for epidemic a(h1n1)
inﬂuenza in young men. N Engl JMed 307:1042-1046.

[0322] 28. Kark, J. D., and Lebiush, M. 1981. Smoking
and epidemic inﬂuenza-like illness in female military
recruits: a brief survey, Am JPublic Health 71:530-532.

[0323] 29. Davis, B. K., Wen, H., and Ting, J. P. 2011. The
inﬂannnasome NLRs in immunity, inﬂammation and
associated diseases. Annu Rev Immunol 29:707-735.

[0324] 30. Xia, X., Cui, J., Wang, H. Y, Zhu, L., Mat-
sueda, S, Wang, Q., Yang, X., Hong, J., Songyang, Z,
Chen, Z. J., et all 2011. NLRXI negatively regulates
TLR-induced NF-kappaB signaling by targeting TRAF6
and IKK. Immunity 34:843-853.

[0325] 31.Arnoult, D., Soares, Fr, Tattoli, It, Casmnier, Ci,
Philpott, D. J., and Girardin, S. E. 2009. An N-terminal
addressing sequence targets NLRXl to the mitochondrial
matrix. J Cell Sci 122:3161-3168.

[0326] 32. Zhou, R,, Yazdi, A. 8., Menu, P,, and Tschopp,
J. 2011. Arole for mitochondria in NLRP3 inﬂarnmasome
activationi Nature 469:221-225.

[0327] 33. Subramanian, N., Natarajan, K., Clatworthy,
M. R, Wang, Z., and Germain, R. N. 2013. The adaptor
MAVS promotes NLRP3 mitochondrial localization and
inﬂammasome activation. Cell 153:348-361.

[0328] 34. Shi, Y., Cao, J., Gao, J., Zheng, L., Goodwin,
A., An, C. H., Patel, A., Lee, J. 8., Duncan, S. R.,
Kaminski, N., et a1. 2012. Retinoic acid—related orphan
receptor-alpha is induced in the setting of DNA damage
and promotes pulmonary emphysema. Am J Respir Crit
Care Med 186:412-419.

[0329] 35. Sun, Q,, Sun, L., Liu, H. H,, Chen, X., Seth, R,
Br, Forman, Jr, and Chen, Z. J. 20061 The speciﬁc and
essential role of MAVS in antiviral innate immune
responses. Immunity 24:633-642.

[0330] Table 1.

[0331] Clinical Characteristics of the Study Populations.

Values are presented as meansz-standard deviation (STD) in

LTRC Yale Cohort (a), Pittsburgh Cohort (b) and Korean

Asan cohort, respectively. # The Global Initiative for

Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) stage range

from stage 1 (GOLD l) COPD, indicating mild disease, to

stage IV (GOLD 4) COPD, indicating very severe disease.
§ FEV1(%), pre-BD denotes prebronchodilator FEVl (‘Vn of
predicted value). FEV1(%), post-BD denotes postbroncho-
dilator FEVi (% of predicted value). DLCO denotes diﬁ'using
US 2019/0030119 A1

42

Jan. 3], 2019

, cont inued

Thr
370

Lea Lys Val ser Ala sex Thr Val Thr

375

Pro Asp

380
Glu Glu

Thr Ala

390

Ala Thr Ala

395

A511 Ala

385

Pro Pro Pro Gly

Ala Glu

410

Leu Ser Ser 591‘ Asn

405

Ser Ser Trp Asp Arg

Glu Val Ala

425

Leu Ser Lye Pro Leu Ser Gln Val

420

Asp

Phe Glu Ala

440

lle Ala Thr

445

ser Gly Leu Ser Ser

cys
435

Asp

Met Gly His Glu Glu Glu

450

Pro cys Gly Pro

455

Asn Tyr

450

Lys

Thr
465

Phe lle Val

470

Gly His Ala Glu A511 Pro ser Ile Gln

475

Pro Pro Ala Pro Pro

485

Asn Pro Asp Asp

490

Gly

Ala Phe Gln Glu Glu

505

Asp Lys Val Pro His

500

Cys

Ala
515

Gln Val

520

Ala Val Thr Val

525

Pro Gly Lem Trp Lem Gly

Thr Val Val His

540

Leu
530

Leu Lem Tyr

535

Arg Arg Leu

What is claimed herein is:

1. A method of decreasing chord length in the lung of a
subject, the method comprising administering an inhibitor of
Mitochondrial AntiViral Signa ing protein (MAVS),

2. The method of claim 1, wherein t e subject is a subject
in need of treatment for alveoli loss.

3. The method of claim 1, urther resulting in a statisti-
cally signiﬁcant decrease in the rate of loss of lung units and
improvement in lung volume or lung surface area,

4. The method of claim 1, w erein tie inhibitor of MAVS
is a modulator of NOD-Like leceptor family member Xl
(NLRXl)-dependent pathways,

5. The method of claim 1, w Jerein tie inhibitor of MAVS
is an agonist of NLRXl,

6. The method of claim 5, w ierein tie agoriist of NLRXl
is a nucleic acid encoding NLRXl or an NLRXl polypep-
tide.

7. The method of claim 1, wherein t 1e subject is a subject
determined to have a decreased level of NLRXl expression,

8. The method of claim 7, w erein tie level of NLRXl is
determined by measuring the level of a NLRXl nucleic acid,

9. The method of claim 8, w erein tie level of NLRX] is
determined by measuring the level of NLRXl RNA tran-
script.

10, The method of claim 8, wherein the level of the
nucleic acid is determined using a met 10d selected from the
group consisting of:

 

 

Gly Ser Ser

Thr

Leu

Ser

430

ser

ser

Leu

Arg
510

Leu

Arg

Gly Gly

400
Gly Ser
415

Pro Phe

Leu Gly
Glu Gly

Glu
480

Leu

Pro Gln

495

Pro Ser

Val Val

RT—PCR; quantitative RT—PCR; Northern blot; microarray
based expression analysis; next-generation sequencing;
and RNA in situ hybridization.

11, The method of claim 7, wherein the level of NLRX]
is determined by measuring the level of NLRXl polypep-
tide.

12. The method of claim 11, wherein the level of the
polypeptide is determined using a method selected from the
group consisting of:

Western blot; imrnunoprecipitation; enzyme-linked
imrnunosorbent assay (ELISA); radioimmunological
assay (MA); sandwich assay; ﬂuorescence in situ
hybridization (FISH); immunohistological staining;
radioimmunometric assay; irnmunoﬂuoresence assay;
mass spectroscopy; FACS; and irnmunoelectrophoresis
assay.

13. The method of claim 11. wherein the polypeptide level

is measured using an antibody reagent.

14. The method of claim 13, wherein the antibody reagent
is detectably labeled or generates a detectable signal.

15. The method of claim 7, wherein the expression level
of NLRXl is normalized relative to the expression level of
one or more reference genes or reference proteins,

16. The method of claim 15, wherein the reference level
of NLRXl is the expression level of NLRXl in a prior
sample obtained from the subject.

*****
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 5 of 12 US 2019/0030119 Al

   

° E
U

a: i:
< <
E E
E E
§ 2

25 50 '15 100 125 25 50 T5 30G 125
FEVi‘kpre-BD FEV1% post-BB
Fig. 4A Fig. 4B

NLRX1 mRNA
Transcriptom

 

Contrcis GOLD 1 GOLDZ GOLD3

Fig. 5

p = 0.625

NLRM mRNA Transcriptome

 

Former Current
Smokers Smokers

Fig. 6
