US 2019/0029258 A1

EXAMPLES

Film Formation Method

[0036] Into a mixing tank with agitating blades operating
at 60 Hertz, an adhesive precursor, commercially available
from entrochem, inc. (Columbus, Ohio) under the trade
designation, 320650, was pumped using a diaphragm pump.
To the adhesive precursor and via a port in the top of the
mixing tank, chlorhexidine was added in powder form to the
desired total weight percentage at a rate of from 1 to 50,000
grams/hour During addition of the chlorhexidine, the con-
tents of the mixing tank were recirculated from bottom to
top, passing through a static mixer along the way. Upon
addition ofchlorhexidine to the desired amount, a degas/mix
cycle was run for one hour and pulling a vacuum on the
mixing tank to a minimum of about 66 kPa absolute pressure
(i.e., about 10 inches of mercury below atmospheric pres-
sure), after which time period the contents of the mixing
tank were immediately dispensed for coating. The contents
were coated on—web at a coating line speed of 38 m/min (125
ft/min) under ultraviolet lights operating at a wavelength of
350-400 nm (typically peaking at 369 nm) and having an
irradiance of 20 mW/cmz. Temperature during all of the
above processing steps was maintained at room temperature.

Extraction and Assay Method for Film

[0037] A 10-cm- by 10-cm-square sample of the ﬁlm was
placed in a glass vial, which was certiﬁed to meet or exceed
EPA standards for volatiles. To the vial, 15 mL of tetrahy-
drofuran (THF) was added. The vial was then placed on a
wrist-action shaker for at least sixteen hours. Then, 5 mL of
the vial contents was diluted to a volume of 10 mL with a
solution of 2716 grams monobasic sodium phosphate (0136
weight % monobasic sodium phosphate based on total
weight of the diluent such that its molarity was 0.115
mol/L), 10 milliliters triethylamine (1.36 weight % trieth-
ylamine based on total weight of the diluent such that its
molarity was 0.036 mol/L), and 10 milliliters water (98.28
Weight % water based on total weight of the diluent), with
the diluent adjusted with phosphoric acid to a pH of 3.0. The
resulting solution was vortexed for about ﬁfteen seconds,
aﬁer which time an aliquot thereof was ﬁltered through a
0145 pm pore size nylon ﬁlter membrane within a syringe-
tip. The resulting ﬁltrate was then analyzed for PCA analyte
using high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC)
analysis according to U.S. Pharmacopeial Convention stan-
dards for analysis of chlorhexidine hydrochloride in a HPLC
system using an LC mode and 239-nanometer ultraviolet
detector. A 4.6-mmx25-cm column was used with a base-
deactivated 5-pm USP Code Ll packing (i.e., octadecyl
silane chemically bonded to porous silica or ceramic micro-
particles as known to those of ordinary skill in the art). The
column temperature was maintained at 40° C. and the ﬂow
rate was maintained within the column at the rate of 1.5
mL/min using a 50 [LL injection size.

Example 1

[0038] An adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the Film
Formation Method and containing 2 weight % chlorhexidine
based on total weight of the adhesive was evaluated accord-
ing to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film described
above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of 12 samples
of the same ﬁlm. No PCA was detected.

Jan. 31, 2019

Example 2

[0039] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 2 weight % chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 25 kGy gamma radiation. No PCA was detected.

Example 3

[0040] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 2 weight "/0 chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 25 kGy gamma radiation and aged at an acceler-
ated rate for six months according to ASTM Test Method
F1980. No PCA was detected.

Example 4

[0041] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 2 weight % chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 25 kGy gamma radiation and aged at an acceler-
ated rate for twenty-four months according to ASTM Test
Method F1980. No PCA was detected.

Example 5

[0042] An adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the Film
Formation Method and containing 2 weight % chlorhexidine
based on total weight of the adhesive was evaluated accord-
ing to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film described
above The evaluation was repeated for a total of 10 samples
of the same ﬁlm. No PCA was detected.

Example 6

[0043] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 2 weight “/0 chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlmi Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 42 kGy gamma radiation No PCA was detected.

Example 7

[0044] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 2 weight % chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 42 kGy gamma radiation. No PCA was detected.

Example 8

[0045] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 2 weight “/0 chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
US 2019/0029258 A1

ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Fi m
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 42 kGy gamma radiation and aged in real time or
two months, No PCA was detected,

Example 9

[0046] An adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the Pi m
Formation Method and containing 10 weight % chlorhexi-
dine based on total weight of the adhesive was evaluated
according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Fim
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
8 samples of the same ﬁlm. No PCA was detected.

Example 10

[0047] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to t 1e
Film Formation Method and containing 10 weight % ch 0-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was eva u-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Fi m
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 43 kGy gamma radiation. No PCA was detected.

 

Example 11

[0048] An adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the Film
Formation Method and containing 10 weight % chlorhexi-
dine based on total weight of the adhesive was evaluated
according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. No PCA was detected.

Example 12

[0049] A sterilized adhesive ﬁlm prepared according to the
Film Formation Method and containing 10 weight % chlo-
rhexidine based on total weight of the adhesive was evalu-
ated according to the Extraction and Assay Method for Film
described above. The evaluation was repeated for a total of
12 samples of the same ﬁlm. Each sample was sterilized to
a dose of 43 kGy gamma radiation and aged at an acceler-
ated rate for twelve months according to ASTM Test Method
F1980. No PCA was detected.

Comparative Example C1

[0050] Wound dressing ﬁlm containing chlorhexidine and
commercially sold by Covalon Technologies Ltd. of Mis-
sissauga, Ontario, Canada as SURGICLEAR Antimicrobial
Clear Silicone Surgical Dressing was evaluated about six
months before its expiration date according to the Extraction
and Assay Method for Film described above. The evaluation
was repeated for a total of 4 samples of the same ﬁlm. PCA
in the amount of 0.0001 mg/mL was detected in each of the
samples.

[0051] Various modiﬁcations and alterations of the inven-
tion will become apparent to those skilled in the art without
departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, which
is deﬁned by the accompanying claims, It should be noted
that steps recited in any method claims below do not
necessarily need to be performed in the order that they are
recited. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize
variations in performing the steps from the order in which
they are recited. In addition, the lack of mention or discus-
sion of a feature, step, or component provides the basis for

Jan. 31, 2019

claims where the absent feature or component is excluded by
way of a proviso or similar claim language.

[0052] Further, as used throughout, ranges may be used as
shorthand for describing each and every value that is within
the range. Any value within the range can be selected as the
terminus of the range. Similarly, any discrete value within
the range can be selected as the minimum or maximum value
recited in describing and claiming features of the invention,
[0053] In addition, as discussed herein it is again noted
that compositions described herein may comprise all com-
ponents in one or multiple parts. Further, while reference
may be made herein to preparation of the various interme-
diate components, recognize that some such intermediate
components may be commercially available and, as such,
can be used according to the invention as an alternative to
otherwise preparing the same, Other variations are recog-
nizable to those of ordinary skill in the art.

1. A method of forming an antimicrobial article, the
method comprising steps of:
providing a polymerizable composition comprising at
least two diﬁerent components, wherein each of the at
least two diﬁerent components are mutually reactive
with each other via chemically different reactive moi-
eties to form a polymeric backbone, and wherein each
of the at least two different components has an average
molecular weight that is less than about 10% of the
weight average molecular weight of the fully polym-
erized composition;
incorporating an antimicrobially etfective amount of at
least one chlorhexidine-containing antimicrobial agent
into the polymerizable composition; and.

polymerizing the polymerizable composition to form
chlorhexidine»containing polymer of the antimicrobial
article, wherein the chlorhexidine-containing polymer
is polyurethane-based,

wherein processing temperature during the method is less

than about 80° C.

2. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing tem-
perature during the method is less than about 40° C.

3. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing tem-
perature during the method is about room temperature.

4. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing tem-
perature during the method is less than that temperature at
which chlorhexidine decomposes to para-chloroaniline.

5. The method of claim 1, wherein the antimicrobially
effective amount of at least one chlorhexidine-containing
antimicrobial agent in the antimicrobial article consists
essentially of chlorhexidine free base.

6. The method of claim 1, wherein the antimicrobially
effective amount of at least one chlorhexidine-containing
antimicrobial agent comprises chlorhexidine salt.

7. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises
continuously forming the chlorhexidine-containing polymer
on a web.

8. The method of claim 1, wherein the polymerizable
composition is essentially free of solvents.

9. The method of claim 1, wherein the chlorhexidine-
containing polymer is essentially free of unreacted solvent.

10. The method of claim 1, wherein polymerization of the
polymerizable composition is initiated using at least one
radiation source selected from ultraviolet radiation and
electron beam radiation.
US 2019/0029258 A1

11 The method of claim 1, wherein polymerization of the
polymerizable composition is initiated without use of an
external source of thermal radiation,

12‘ The method of claim 1, wherein the chlorhexidine-
containing polymer is a polymer ﬁlm.

13‘ The method of claim 1, wherein the chlorhexidine-
containing polymer is an adhesive

14‘ The method of claim 1, wherein the chlorhexidine-
containing polymer is a backing for an adhesive-coated
antimicrobial article,

15‘ The method of claim 1, wherein 100% reactive
chemistry is used to form the chlorhexidine-containing
polymeri

16-18. (canceled)

19‘ The antimicrobial article prepared according to the
method of claim 1.

20‘ An antimicrobial article comprising at least one chlo-
rhexidine-containing polymer, wherein less than about
00001 mg/mL detectable para-chloroaniline is present in the
chlorhexidine-containing polymen

214 The antimicrobial article of claim 20, wherein the
article comprises about 10 weight % chlorhexidine free base
based on total weight of the chlorhexidine-containing poly-
mer,

22‘ The antimicrobial article of claim 20, wherein essen-
tially no detectable para-chloroaniline is present in the
chlorhexidine-containing polymeri

234 The antimicrobial article prepared according to the
method of claim 12.

Jan. 3], 2019
US 2019/0029258 A1

base polymer selected from polycarbonates, polyvinyl ﬂuo-
rides, poly(meth)acrylates, polyurethanes, and modiﬁed
polymers thereof. An exemplary chlorhexidine—containing
polymer is polyurethane-based. Another exemplary chlo-
rhexidine-containing polymer is (meth)acrylate-based.
[0013] Advantageously, PCA is minimal in antimicrobial
articles prepared according to the method of the invention
In one embodiment, an antimicrobial article prepared
according to the method of the invention has less than about
0.0001 mg/mL detectable PCA present in the chlorhexidine-
containing polymer, In a further embodiment, an antimicro-
bial article prepared according to the method of the inven-
tion has essentially no detectable PCA present in the
chlorhexidine-containing polymer

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE
INVENTION

[0014] Antimicrobial articles of the invention are chlo-
rhexidine-containing. Chlorhexidine-containing antimicro-
bial articles comprise an antimicrobially etfective amount of
chlorhexidine in its pure form (i.e., as a free base), an
antimicrobially effective amount of chlorhexidine in the
form of at least one chlorhexidine salt, or combinations
thereof. Unlike widespread use of the general term chlo-
rhexidine by those of ordinary skill in the art in referring
only to the salt form of chlorhexidine, unless speciﬁcally
stated herein, reference to the general term chlorhexidine in
describing the invention herein is meant to include both the
pure form and salt form of chlorhexidine.

[0015] In one embodiment, chlorhexidine-containing anti-
microbial articles comprise at least one chlorhexidine salt.
Suitable counterions for chlorhexidine in salts thereof
include, but are not limited to, dihydrochloride, methosul-
fate, diphosphanilate, palmitate, lactate, gluconate, diac-
etate, and the like. An exemplary chlorhexidine salt is
chlorhexidine gluconate (CHG), which is sometimes
referred to by those of ordinary skill in the art as chlorhexi-
dine digluconate.

[0016] In another embodiment, chlorhexidine is present in
its substantially pure form (i.e., as a free base). When using
pure chlorhexidine, antimicrobial activity is typically
increased as compared to use of chlorhexidine salts. It is
believed that lack of bonding between chlorhexidine and the
polymeric composition in which it is dispersed (as compared
to the at least ionic bonding present when chlorhexidine salts
are dispersed in a polymeric composition) contributes to
improved release of chlorhexidine from the polymeric com-
position and, hence, antimicrobial effect,

[0017] Antimicrobial articles of the invention comprise
any suitable polymeric materials (also referred to herein
simply as “polymers”), which can be formed into a wide
variety of shapes suitable for their intended application.
Some applications impose more stringent requirements on
dimensions or other properties of materials used than others,
For example, optical clarity of polymeric materials is an
important consideration when selecting polymeric materials
for use in optical applications. As a further example, many
applications require that polymeric materials used therein
consist of single layer ﬁlms having controlled dimensions.
[0018] A “ﬁlm” is generally understood to be a relatively
thin, continuous, single layer of solid material. In contrast,
many conventionally applied “coatings” do not form a
continuous or uniform layer of material on an underlying
substrate. As such, once excess solvent (i.e., organic solvent

Jan. 3], 2019

and/or water) is dried, liquid-applied coatings (erg, vapor
coatings and ink jet-printed coatings) are often not able to be
physically separated from the supporting substrate on which
they are formed so that they can be used as a stand-alone
layer or as one of multiple layers in another application.
Thus, such coating technology has its limitations and is
generally deﬁcient for formation of polymeric ﬁlms.
[0019] In exemplary embodiments, polymer ﬁlms formed
according to methods of the invention are able to be physi-
cally separated from the supporting substrate on which they
are formed so that they can be used as a stand-alone layer or
as one of multiple layers in antimicrobial articles. Recog-
nize, however, that polymer ﬁlms may be formed contigu-
ously with or subsequently laminated to other polymer ﬁlms
or layers (e,g., adhesive layers or release liners) according to
further embodiments.

[0020] Antimicrobial articles and chlorhexidine-contain-
ing polymerizable compositions used to form the same
according to methods of the invention comprise any suitable
material. Chemistry of materials used herein is not limited so
long as processing temperatures associated therewith fall
within those of the present invention. Suitable chemistries
may comprise polyoleﬁns (e.g,, low density polyethylene),
polyurethanes (e.g., polyester polyurethane or polyether
polyurethane), polyesters (e.g., polyether polyester), and
polyamides (e.g., polyether polyamide). In an exemplary
embodiment, antimicrobial articles of the invention com-
prise at least one base polymer selected from polycarbon-
ates, polyvinyl ﬂuorides, poly(meth)acrylates (e.g,, a poly-
acrylate or a polymethacrylate), polyurethanes, and
modiﬁed polymers thereof (eg, a hybrid).

[0021] By use of the term “polymerizable," it is to be
understood that such a composition contains components
that will polymerize upon initiation using any suitable
method. The polymerizable composition may exist in one or
multiple parts, depending on the nature of the components
therein. It is also to be understood that each part of the
polymerizable composition may itself comprise more than
one premixed components.

[0022] “Polymerizable compositions" of the invention
include at least two different components (e.g., monomers,
which can be mono-, di-, tri-functional, etc.), wherein the
two components are mutually reactive with each other Via
chemically diﬁ'erent reactive moieties to form a polymeric
backbone. The two components may react to form the
polymeric backbone in linear, branched, and/or networked
polymers. In preferred embodiments, polymerizable com-
positions are polymerizable using free radical growth or
similar polymerization methods capable of being initiated
using a radiation source. For example, poly(meth)acrylatcs,
polyurethanes, polyureas, and polyvinyls are capable of
being formed according to the invention using such polym-
erization methods.

[0023] Understand that a polymerizable composition may
be partially polymerized or essentially non-polymerized. In
an exemplary embodiment, each of the at last two different
components forming the polymerizable composition has an
average molecular weight that is less than about 1% of the
weight average molecular weight of the fully polymerized
composition. In another exemplary embodiment, each of the
at least two different components forming the polymerizable
composition has an average molecular weight that is less
than about 10% of the weight average molecular weight of
the fully polymerized composition. In yet another exemplary
US 2019/0029258 A1

embodiment, each of the at least two different components
forming the polymerizable composition has an average
molecular weight that is less than about 50% of the weight
average molecular weight of the fully polymerized compo-
sition.

[0024] Exemplary polymers in antimicrobial articles
formed according to methods of the invention are polyure-
thane-based. For simplicity, the term “polyurethane” as used
herein includes polymers containing urethane (also known
as carbamate) linkages, urea linkages, or combinations
thereof (i .e., in the case of poly(urethane-urea)s). Thus,
polyurethane-based compositions contain at least urethane
linkages, urea linkages, or combinations thereof. Further-
more, polyurethane-based polymers are based on polymers
where the polymeric backbone has at least 80% urethane
and/or urea repeat linkages formed during the polymeriza-
tion process.

[0025] Polyurethane-based polymers are prepared accord-
ing to methods of the invention by reacting components,
which include at least one isocyanate-reactive (e.g.,
hydroxy-functional, such as polyol) component and at least
one isocyanate-ﬁinctional (e.g., polyisocyanate) component.
For example, components of exemplary polymerizable com-
positions and which are useful in the formation of polyure-
thane-based polymers according to methods of the invention
are described in U.S. Patent Publication No. US-2011-
0241261-A1, entitled “Methods for Polymerizing Films
In—Situ Using a Radiation Source” and incorporated herein
by reference in its entirety.

[0026] In order to minimize decomposition of chlorhexi-
dine to PCA within polymerizable compositions during
processing thereof to form antimicrobial articles, antimicro-
bial articles of the invention are formed using relatively low
temperature processingiiei, processing at temperatures
less than 80° C., preferably at temperatures less than about
60° C., more preferably at temperatures less than about 40°
C., even more preferably less than about 35° C., and even
more preferably less than about 30° C. In an exemplary
embodiment, processing occurs at about room tempera-
ture~iieu about 22° C.-25° Ci Ifelevated temperatures are
used at any time during processing, their duration is mini-
mized. Preferably, however, temperatures used during pro-
cessing never, even brieﬂy, exceed 80° C. or, when used, the
preferred lower temperature limits.

[0027] In exemplary embodiments, the polymerization of
the polymerizable composition is initiated using at least one
radiation source selected from ultraviolet radiation, thermal
radiation, and electron beam radiation. In one embodiment,
polymerization of the polymerizable composition is initiated
without use of an external source of thermal radiation. If
needed, at least one of ultraviolet radiation and electron
beam radiation is used in one embodiment of the invention
in order to initiate polymerization of chlorhexidine-contain-
ing polymerizable compositions when making chlorhexi-
dine-containing antimicrobial articles of the invention. Pref-
erably, use of thermal radiation is minimized or eliminated
during all processing of materials comprising chlorhexidine
when forming antimicrobial articles according to methods of
the invention.

[0028] Methods of the invention can utilize continuous
processing or batch processing. For example, continuous
processing, such as web-based polymerization using rela-
tively low energy ultraviolet radiation, can be used in one
embodiment of the invention. As another example, batch

Jan. 31, 2019

processing, such as coating ultraviolet-curable composition
on a discrete substrate and irradiating the same, can be used
in another embodiment of the invention.

[0029] A wide variety of antimicrobial articles can be
formed according to the present invention In an exemplary
embodiment, an antimicrobial article comprises an adhe-
sive-coated backinggeg, an adhesive laminated to, or
coated on, a backing. In this embodiment, at least one of the
backing and the adhesive contains chlorhexidine.

[0030] An exemplary embodiment of forming such a
backing comprises 100% reactive chemistry, such as ure-
thane-based chemistry, where no or minimal radiation (egi,
thermal, electron beam, or ultraviolet radiation) is used to
form the backing, which can be a continuous web-based
process or batch process.

[0031] An exemplary embodiment of forming such an
adhesive comprises 100% reactive chemistry, such as (meth)
acrylate-based chemistry, where no or minimal radiation
(e.g., thermal, electron beam, or ultraviolet radiation) is used
to form the adhesive, which can be a continuous web-based
process or a batch process.

[0032] Another exemplary method of forming such an
adhesive comprises using ultraviolet radiation. For example,
a polymerizable adhesive composition comprising a thixo-
trope and ultraviolet polymerization initiator can be roll-
coated onto a substrate and then subjected to ultraviolet
radiation to polymerize the composition to an adhesive. US
Patent Publication No. US-2011-0241261-A1 describes
such a useful polymerization method for the present inven-
tion. US Patent Publication No. US-2011-0137006-A1,
entitled “Methods for Polymerizing Films In-Situ” and
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, describes
another useful polymerization method for the present inven-
tion.

[0033] According to a preferred aspect of methods of the
invention, the chlorhexidine-containing polymerizable com-
position is essentially free of solvents. In addition to, for
example, environmental and safety concerns associated with
solvent-based processing, solvent-based processing typi-
cally entails use of elevated temperatures for effective
removal of excess solvent from the polymerized composi-
tion. It is preferred that polymers in antimicrobial articles
formed according to methods of the invention are essentially
free of unreacted solvent. Thus, it is preferred that the
polymerizable compositions from which they are formed are
essentially free of solvents

[0034] The amount of PCA within an antimicrobial article
formed according to methods of the invention can be quan-
titatively analyzed using any suitable analytical methodol-
ogy. PCA’s observed limit of detection (LCD) is 0.2 ng/mL
and the limit of quantiﬁcation (LOQ) is 0.3 ng/mL according
to Agilent Technologies (“Analytical Methodology for PCA
Detection: Quantiﬁcation of 4-Chloroaniline in Chlorhexi-
dine Using the Agilent 1200 Series Rapid Resolution LC
System Coupled with the Agilent 64108 Triple Quadrupole
LC/MS System,” Agilent Technologies, Inc, Mar. 15, 2009,
Publication Number 5990-3676EN). According to the ana-
lytical method described therein, PCA present in a sample
reacts with nitrous acid and ot-naphthol to give a measurable
red-colored derivative.

[0035] Exemplary embodiments and applications of the
invention are described in the following non-limiting
examples.
US 2019/0029258 A1

METHODS OF PROCESSING
CHLORHEXIDINE-CONTAINING
POLYMERIZABLE COMPOSITIONS AND
AN TINIICROBIAL ARTICLES FORMED
THEREBY

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

[0001] The present invention relates generally to methods
of processing chlorhexidine-containing polymerizable com-
positions and antimicrobial articles formed thereby.

[0002] The United States’ Center for Disease Control
(CDC) recommends chlorhexidine gluconate as the pre-
ferred skin antiseptic over tinctures of iodine, iodophors, and
alcohol. Chlorhexidine, a substituted diguanide, has a high
degree of antimicrobial activity, low mammalian toxicity,
and the ability to bind to the stratum corneum layer of skin
and to mucous membranes The bactericidal activity of
chlorhexidine is much greater than that of monomeric bigu-
anides, These unique characteristics make it particularly
attractive as an active ingredient in antimicrobial skin prepa-
rations, Besides its use in speciﬁc medical dressings and skin
antiseptics, the eﬂicacy of chlorhexidine in providing anti-
microbial protection is known further throughout the medi-
cal industry. However, when incorporated into polymeriz-
able compositions, elevated processing temperatures are
oﬁen used, which can potentially damage the chlorhexidine
within,

[0003] An example of such elevated temperature process-
ing is described in US, Pat. No. 5,165,952, Where a tem-
perature range of 160° C.-250° C. is used, Referencing the
same, US. Pat. No. 8,383,143 states: “When chlorhexidine
is bulk distributed it adversely affects certain characteristics
of the device such as tensile strength, and the high tempera-
tures needed for extension of plastics such as polyurethane
may damage the chlorhexidine.” U.S, Patent Publication No.
2013/0303656 similarly references the negative elfects asso-
ciated with processing chlorhexidine-containing materials at
elevated temperatures.

[0004] Not only does processing at elevated temperatures
potentially decrease eﬂicacy of chlorhexidinecontaining
articles, but it is also known to create a toxic chemical,
Hydrolysis of chlorhexidine yields p-chloroaniline (also
referred to as 4-chloroaniline, but referred to hereinaﬁer as
PCA). The amount of PCA generated is relatively insigniﬁ-
cant at room temperature, but becomes more signiﬁcant as
temperature is increased by heating, especially at alkaline
pH. At temperatures of about 40° C, or greater, chlorhexi-
dine is documented as decomposing to PCA, as described in,
for example, Ranganathan, N S, (1996), “Chlorhexidine,” in
Ascenzi, Joseph M, (Edi), Handbook of Antiseptic: and
Disinfectants, Marcel Dekker, Inc. (New York), pp. 235-265,
Thus, when thermal processing of chlorhexidine-containing
articles is employed, introduction of PCA therein has been
unavoidable,

[0005] Many polymer-based materials are processed at
elevated temperatures. For example, see U.S. Patent Publi-
cation No. 2011/313048, which describes an antimicrobial
silicone-based wound dressing formed from a liquid con-
taining silicone and employing particulates of a chlorhexi-
dine compound that is not soluble in the liquid, where
processing temperatures of 100° C,-150° C, are described, In
general, continuous web-based processing of polymerizable
compositions oﬁen occurs at temperatures of 80° C,-100° C,
Thus, decomposition of chlorhexidine incorporated therein

Jan. 3], 2019

to PCA is not only prevalent along the length of a moving
web when subjected to such continuous processing, but it
becomes even more so at locations along the web that were
halted during processing, which often occurs and oﬁen
involves excess exposure time to heating elements posi-
tioned along the web,

[0006] In view of the toxic nature of PCA, desired are new
methods of processing chlorhexidine-containing polymeriz-
able compositions and antimicrobial articles formed thereby,
wherein PCA formation is minimized

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

[0007] A method of forming an antimicrobial article
according to the invention comprises steps of: providing a
polymerizable composition; incorporating an antimicrobi-
ally effective amount of at least one chlorhexidine-contain-
ing antimicrobial agent into the polymerizable composition;
and, polymerizing the polymerizable composition to form
chlorhexidine-containing polymer of the antimicrobial
article, wherein processing temperature during the method is
less than about 80° C. In a further embodiment, the pro-
cessing temperature during the method is less than about 40°
C,, preferably less than about 35° C. or, more preferably, less
than about 30° C, In a still further embodiment, the pro-
cessing temperature during the method is about room tem-
perature (i,e., 22° C.-25° C.) Preferably, to maximize ben-
eﬁts of the invention, the processing temperature during the
method is less than that temperature at which chlorhexidine
decomposes to PCA,

[0008] The antimicrobially eﬁective amount of at least one
chlorhexidine-containing antimicrobial agent in the antimi-
crobial article consists essentially of chlorhexidine free base
in one embodiment. For example, in one embodiment, an
antimicrobial article prepared according to the method of the
invention comprises about 10 weight % chlorhexidine free
base based on total weight of the chlorhexidine-containing
polymer. In another embodiment, the antimicrobially eﬁec-
tive amount of at least one chlorhexidine-containing anti-
microbial agent comprises chlorhexidine salt.

[0009] An exemplary method comprises continuously
forming the chlorhexidine-containing polymer on a web.
According to one aspect of the invention, polymerization of
the polymerizable composition is initiated using at least one
radiation source selected from ultraviolet radiation and
electron beam radiation. According to another aspect of the
invention, polymerization of the polymerizable composition
is initiated without use of an external source of thermal
radiation, For example, 100% reactive chemistry is used to
form the chlorhexidine-containing polymer in one embodi-
ment.

[0010] Preferably, the polymerizable composition formed
according to methods of the invention is essentially free of
solvents. In one embodiment, the chlorhexidine-containing
polymer is essentially free of unreacted solvent.

[0011] While it may take many forms, in one embodiment,
the chlorhexidine—containing polymer is a polymer ﬁlm.
According to one aspect of the invention, the chlorhexidine-
containing polymer is an adhesive, According to another
aspect of the invention, the chlorhexidine-containing poly-
mer is a backing for an adhesive-coated antimicrobial
article.

[0012] The chlorhexidine-containing polymer may also
comprise any suitable chemistry. In one embodiment, the
chlorhexidine-containing polymer comprises at least one
(19) United States
(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2019/0029258 A1

McGuire, JR.

 

US 20190029258Al

(43) Pub. Date: Jan. 31, 2019

 

(54)

(71)

(72)

(73)

(21)

(22)

(63)

(60)

METHODS OF PROCESSING
CHLORHEXIDINE-CONTAINING
POLYMERIZABLE COMPOSITIONS AND
ANTIMICROBIAL ARTICLES FORMED
THEREBY

Applicant: entrotech life sciences, inc., San
Francisco, CA (US)

Inventor: James E. McGuire, JR., Palm Beach,

FL (US)

Assignee: entrotech life sciences, inc., San
Francisco, CA (US)

Applt No; 16/147,756

Filed: Sep. 30, 2018

Related US Application Data

Continuation of application No 14/888,673, ﬁled on
Nov. 2, 2015, ﬁled as application No PCT/USZOIS/
026547 on Aprt 17, 2015,

Provisional application No. 61/981,710, ﬁled on Apr,
18, 2014.

Publication Classiﬁcation

(51) Int. Cl.
A01N 47/44 (2006101)
A6116 0/70 (2006.01)
A01N 25/10 (2006.01)
A6116 31/155 (2006.01)
A61L 15/46 (2006.01)
A61L 15/50 (2006101)
A01N 25/34 (2006101)
(52) US. Cl.
CPC A01N 47/44 (2013.01); A61L 2300/206
(2013,01); A61K 9/7069 (2013101); A6116
9/7061 (2013.01); A01N 25/34 (2013.01);
A01N 25/10 (2013.01); A6116 31/155
(2013.01); A61L 15/46 (2013.01); A61L 15/58
(2013.01); A61L 2300/404 (2013.01)
(57) ABSTRACT

Advantageously, para-chloroaniline (PCA) is minimal in
antimicrobial articles prepared according to the method of
the invention, A method of forming an antimicrobial article
according to the invention comprises steps of: providing a
polymerizable composition; incorporating an antimicrobi-
ally effective amount of at least one chlorhexidine-contain-
ing antimicrobial agent into the polymerizable composition;
and, polymerizing the polymerizable composition to fomi
chlorhexidine-containing polymer of the antimicrobial
article. wherein processing temperature during the method is
less than about 80° C,
