Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 9 of 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

RESiDUALS

 

ABSORBANCE AT 280 nm

 

 

6.4 6.45 6.5 6.55 6.8

RAmus (CM)

FIG. 9
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 8 of 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

LUCFERASEACﬁVRY

12500

10000

7500

5000

REUGNEUGHTUNUS

2500

 

MOUSENUMBER

FIG. 8
US 2019/0031721A1

SOLUBLE FORMS OF HENDRA AND NIPAH
VIRUS F GLYCOPROTEIN AND USES
THEREOF

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF FEDERAL
SUPPORT

[0001] The present invention arose in part from research
funded by the following federal grants: U54 AIO57168 and
R21 AIO65597. The government may have certain rights to
the invention.

FIELD OF THE INVENTION

[0002] The present invention relates to soluble forms of F
glycoprotein from Hendra and Nipah viruses, to composi-
tions comprising soluble forms of F glycoprotein from
Hendra and Nipah virus, to antibodies reactive against
soluble forms of F glycoprotein from Hendra and Nipah
virus, and to methods related thereto.

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

[0003] Nipah virus (NiV) and Hendra virus (HeV) are
newly emergent zoonotic viruses that currently comprise
their own genus, Henipavirus, within the family Paramyxo-
viridae. Paramyxoviruses are negative-sense RNA envel-
oped yiruses and encompass a variety of important human
and animal pathogens, including; measles virus, mumps
Virus, Sendai virus, Newcastle disease virus, rinderpest
vims, canine distemper virus, human parainﬂuenza viruses,
respiratory syncytial virus. and simian vims 5 (reviewed in
Lamb and Parks (2007) Fields Virology, eds. Knippe &
Howley, Lippincott. Williams & Wilkins, pp 1449-1496)
The broad species tropisms of the Henipaviruses and the
ability to cause fatal disease in both animals and humans
distinguish HeV and NiV from all other known paramyxo-
vimses (reviewed in Eaton (2001) Microbes Infect 3:277-
278), HeV and NiV are both regarded as Biological Safety
Level-4 (BSL—4) pathogens, and are on the NIAID Biode-
fense research agenda as zoonotic emerging category C
priority pathogens that could potentially be used as agents
for bio-terrorism. Henipaviruses can be readily ampliﬁed in
host livestock and can further cause disease in large animals,
Henipavinises can be aerosol transmitted to humans where
disease may manifest as severe respiratory illness and febrile
encephalitis. Human to human transmission is also possible.
Henipaviruses can be readily grown in either cell culture or
embryonated chicken eggs, can be produced in high un-
concentrated titers (~108 TCIDSO/ml), and can be highly
infectious (Crameri et al. (2002) J, Virol. Methods 99:41 -5 1;
Field et a1. (2001) Microbes Infect. 3:307»314; Hooper et al,
(2001) Microbes Infect 3:315-322).

[0004] The principal reservoirs for both NiV and HeV
appear to be several species of pteroid fruit bats, common to
Southeast Asia and the Paciﬁc, and hence most reported viral
outbreaks seen to date have been in those areas (Eaton et a1.
(2006) Nat. Rev. Microbiol. 4:23-35). HeV ﬁrst appeared in
Australia in 1994 in two unrelated but similarly timed
episodes of severe respiratory disease in horses, in which a
total of three transmissions to humans were observed, two of
which resulted in death. HeV reemerged through fatal
equine infections inAustralia in 1999, 2004, and 2006 (Field
et al. (2000) Aust. Vet J r 781279-280; Anonymous (2004) Int.
Soc. for Infect. Dis. 200412143307; Murray (2006) World
Org. for Animal Health Vol. 19-No. 26). NiV emerged in

Jan. 31, 2019

between 1997 and 1998 in an outbreak of encephalitis
among pig farmers in both Malaysia and Singapore, gener-
ating 265 reports of human infection, of which 105 were
fatal (Chua (2003) J. Clin, Virol, 26:265-275). NiV recently
reemerged in Bangladesh, Two outbreaks of NiV occurred in
2004, and yet another in January of 2005 (Communicable
Disease Report Weekly (2005) Vol. 15 No 16) Several
important observations in the more recent outbreaks have
been made, including higher incidence of acute respiratory
distress syndrome, person-to-person transmission, and sig-
niﬁcantly higher case fatality rates (approaching 75%)
(Health and Science Bulletin (2004) 2:5-11; Hsu et a1.
(2004) Emerg. Infect Dis. 10:2082-2087).

[0005] Physiologically, paramyxoviruses possess two
major membrane-anchored glycoproteins in the envelope of
the viral particle that are required for infection of a receptive
host cell. The two glycoproteins serve different but comple-
mentary functions. One glycoprotein acts to achieve physi-
cal attachment with the host while the other glycoprotein
acts to achieve effective fusion with the host. Typically,
without the concerted action of both, the host cannot be
infected.

[0006] The attachment glycoprotein is a type 11 membrane
protein where the amino (N —) terminus is oriented toward
the cytoplasm and the carboxy (C—) terminus is on the other
side of the plasma membrane and in the extracellular mate-
rialr The attachment glycoprotein can be either a hemagglu-
tininneuraminidase protein (HN), a hemagglutinin protein
(H), or a glycoprotein (G) (which lacks hemagglutination
and neuraminidase activities) depending on the particular
virus (reviewed in Lamb & Parks (2007) Fields Virology,
eds. Knippe & Howley, Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, pp.
1449-1496). Traditionally, the HN, H, and G proteins are the
principal antigens to which virtually all neutralizing anti-
bodies are directed. NiV and HeV both express G glyco-
proteins. Previous studies focusing on the G glycoproteins
from NiV and HeV have yielded effective subunit vaccines
and diagnostic reagents. The primary function of the
paramyxovirus attachment glycoprotein is to engage appro-
priate receptors on the surfaces of host cells, which for the
majority of well-characterized paramyxoviruses, are sialic
acid moieties. HeV and NiV glycoprotein, however, utilizes
the host cell protein receptors ephrinBZ and/or ephrinB3
(Bishop et a1. (2007) J. Virol. 81 :5893-5901; Bonaparte et a1.
(2005) Proc, Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 102: 10652-10657;
Negrete et all (2006) PLoS Pathog 2: e7)

[0007] The fusion (F) glycoprotein in paramyxoviruses
mediates pH-independent membrane fusion between the
virus and its host cell, which results in delivery of the
nucleocapsid. Paramyxovirus F glycoproteins are trimeric
class I fusogenic envelope glycoproteins, with the protein's
N-terminus being located in the extracellular domain, An
important feature of paramyxovirus F glycoproteins is the
presence of two heptad repeat regions and a hydrophobic
fusion peptide. HeV and NiV infect through a pH-indepen-
dent membrane fusion process into the host cell by the
concerted action of the attachment and fusion glycoproteins.
In nearly all cases, both glycoproteins are required for
eﬂicient membrane fusion (Bossart & Broder (2007) Viral
Entry into Host Cells, eds. Pohlmann & Simmons, Landes
Bioscience).

[0008] Upon activation of the fusion mechanism, F gly-
coproteins will undergo confomiational changes that facili-
tate the insertion of the fusion peptide into target mem-
US 2019/0031721A1

branes. The conformational changes bring the two heptad
repeat regions together for the formation of a six-helix
bundle structure (also called a timer-of-hairpins). These
conformational changes occur during or immediately fol-
lowing vints-cell membrane fusion reviewed in Lamb et al.
(2006) Virology 344130-37). Several molecular details of the
substantial conformational change of F glycoprotein have
been revealed in the recent structural solutions of both post-
and pre—fusion conformations of F glycoprotein (Yin et a1.
(2005) Proc. Nat1.Acad. Sci. USA. 102:9288-9293; Yin et
al. (2006) Nature 439:38-44).

[0009] Research in Henipaviruses is of extreme impor-
tance for at least two major reasons: to gain insight into the
physiology of these viruses, and to develop strategies to
treat, to detect and to prevent their further outbreak. Cur-
rently, therapeutics and methodologies for diagnosis for
NiV— or HeV-infected individuals are limited Given the
novelty and threat posed by these viruses, there is a need for
improved means of treating and/or preventing an infection
by NiV or HeV, as well as a means for accurately detecting
an infection.

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

[0010] The present invention provides new tools and
methods for the design, production and use of soluble forms
of the F glycoprotein of Hendra virus and Nipah virus. The
present invention relates to various soluble forms of the F
glycoprotein from the Hendra or Nipah virus. The invention
provides a non-membrane bound form of F glycoprotein
from the Hendra and Nipah viruses. The invention provides
for a soluble F glycoprotein suitable as an antigen for
vaccination purposes. The invention further provides soluble
forms of F glycoprotein suitable to identify and isolate
antibodies that speciﬁcally bind to it. The invention further
provides diagnostic kits comprising soluble forms of F
glycoprotein suitable for detecting the presence of Hendra
and Nipah viruses.

[0011] In one embodiment, the invention provides meth-
ods of producing soluble F glycoprotein derived from Hen-
dra virus and/or Nipah virus. In some embodiments, the
soluble F glycoprotein is produced by recombinant means.
By way of example, the soluble F glycoprotein can he
produced by genetic engineering. In other embodiments, the
soluble F glycoprotein is produced as a synthetic polypep-
tide.

[0012] In another embodiment, the invention provides
nucleic acid and polypeptide sequences or fragments, ana-
logs or homologs thereof that encode a soluble F glycopro-
tein derived from Hendra or Nipah virus.

[0013] The invention also provides expression vectors
comprising the nucleic acid encoding a soluble F glycopro-
tein derived from Hendra and/or Nipah virus.

[0014] The invention also provides a fusion protein com-
prising a polypeptide of the invention and one or more
additional polypeptides that enhance the stability of the
present invention enhance the irnmunogenicity of the pres-
ent invention and/or assist in the puriﬁcation of the present
invention. Other embodiments provide nucleic acids that
encode the fusion proteins. Some embodiments provide
soluble oligomers of F glycoprotein from Hendrit and/or
Nipah virus.

[0015] Another embodiment of the present invention pro-
vides antibodies and fragments thereof, such as neutralizing,
humanized, monoclonal, chimeric and polyclonal antibod-

Jan. 31, 2019

ies, speciﬁc or a soluble F glycoprotein derived from
Hendra and/or Nipah virus and diagnostic and/ or therapeutic
application of such antibodies.

[0016] Anotier embodiment provides subunit vaccine
comprising the nucleotide or amino acid sequences of the
invention.
[0017] Anotder embodiment of the invention provides
methods of preventing infection by Hendra and/or Nipah
virus in a subject or of mitigating an infection of Hendra
and/or Nipah vinis in a subject.

[0018] Anotier embodiment of this invention provides
diagnostic kits comprising the nucleic acids, polypeptides
and/or antiboc'es of the invention.

[0019] Other embodiments and advantages of the inven-
tion are set forth in part in the description, which follows,
and in part, may be obvious from this description, or may be
learned from the practice of the invention.

 

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

[0020] FIG. 1 shows size exclusion chromatography
analysis of HeV soluble F (sF) glycoprotein. 300 [tg of HeV
sF glycoprotein was analyzed on a calibrated SuperdexTM
200 10/300 gel ﬁltration column 400 u_L fractions were
collected. The elution volume of each peak was used to
determine the approximate molecular mass as depicted from
the calibrated curve. Vo indicates the void volume.

[0021] FIGS. 2A-2B show size exclusion chromatography
analysis of NiV sF glycoprotein generated after Phospholi-
pase D cleavage of a carboxy-terminus GPI sequence. FIG.
2A shows 300 [Lg of NiV sF glycoprotein-GPI analyzed on
a calibrated SuperdexTM 200 10/300 gel ﬁltration column.
400 [LL fractions were then collected. The elution volume of
each peak was used to determine the approximate molecular
mass as depicted from the calibrated curve. Vo represents the
void volume. FIG. 2B shows 5 [LL of each fraction after
analysis by Blue Native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis
(BN-PAGE) followed by western blotting Immuno-detec-
tion was done by using a horseradish peroxidase (HRP)
conjugated anti S-peptide antibody.

[0022] FIGS. 3A-3B show size exclusion chromatography
analysis of HeV sF glycoprotein with a carboxy terminal
GCN peptide motif. FIG. 3A shows 4 mg of HeV sF
g ycoprotein-GCN analyzed on a calibrated SuperdexTM 200
10/300 gel filtration column 400 [LL fractions were collected.
Tie elution volume of each peak was used to determine the
a proximate molecular mass as depicted from the calibrated
curve. Vo indicates the void volume. FIG. 3B shows 2 [LL of
each fraction analyzed by BN-PAGE followed by western
b otting. Detection was done using HRP conjugated anti
S-peptide antibody.

[0023] FIGS. 4A-4B show size exclusion chromatography
analysis of NiV sF glycoprotein with a carboxy] terminal
GCN peptide motif FIG. 4A shows 3 mg of NiV sF
g ycoprotein-GCN analyzed on a calibrated SuperdexTM 200
10/300 gel ﬁltration column. 400 [1L fractions were col-
lected. The elution volume of each peak was used to
determine the approximate molecular mass as depicted from
the calibrated curve. Vo indicates the void volume. FIG. 3B
s ows 2 [1L of each fraction analyzed by BN-PAGE followed
by western blotting. Detection was done using HRP conju-
gated anti S-peptide antibody.

[0024] FIGS. 5A-5B show BN PAGE analysis of sF
g ycoprotein. In lane 1, HeV sF glycoprotein-GCN was
loaded. In lane 2, NiV sF glycoprotein-GCN was loaded. In
US 2019/0031721A1

ing antigen binding ability. Such fragments are also well
known in the art and are regularly employed both in vitro
and in vivo. In particular, as used herein, the term “antibody”
means not only full-length immunoglobulin molecules but
also antigen binding active fragments such as the well-
known active fragments F(ab‘)2, Fab, Fv, and Fd.

[0036] As used herein, the terms “Hendra Virus Disease”
and “Nipah Virus Disease” refer to diseases caused, directly
or indirectly, by infection with Hendra or Nipah virus. The
broad species tropisms and the ability to cause fatal disease
in both animals and humans have distinguished Hendra virus
(HeV) and Nipah virus (NiV) from all other known
paramyxoviruses (Eaton (2001) Microbes Infect. 3:277-
278). These viruses can be ampliﬁed and cause disease in
large animals and can be transmitted to humans where
infection is manifested as a severe respiratory illness and/or
febrile encephalitis

[0037] As used herein with respect to proteins and poly-
peptides, the term “recombinant” may include proteins and/
or polypeptides and/or peptides that are produced or derived
by genetic engineering, for example by translation in a cell
of non-native nucleic acid or that are assembled by artiﬁcial
means or mechanisms.

[0038] As used herein with respect to polypeptides and
proteins, the term “isolated” may include a polypeptide or
nucleic acid that, by the hand of man, exists apart from its
native environment and is therefore not a product of nature.
For example, an isolated polypeptide may exist in a puriﬁed
form or may exist in a non-native environment such as, for
example, a recombinant host cell.

[0039] As used herein, the term “analog” may include any
polypeptide having an amino acid sequence substantially
identical to a polypeptide, or peptide, of the invention, in
which one or more residues have been conservatively sub-
stituted with a functionally similar residue, and further
which displays substantially identical functional aspects of
the polypeptides as described herein. Examples of conser-
vative substitutions include substitution of one non-polar
(hydrophobic) residue for another (e.g. isoleucine, valine,
leucine or methionine) for another, substitution of one polar
(hydrophilic) residue for another (eg. between arginine and
lysine, between glutamine and asparagine, between glycine
and serine), substitution of one basic residue for another
(eg. lysine, arginine or histidine), or substitution of one
acidic residue for another (e.g. aspartic acid or glutamic
acid).

[0040] As used herein, a “homolog” may include any
polypeptide having a tertiary structure substantially identical
to a polypeptide of the invention which also displays the
functional properties of the polypeptides as described
herein.

[0041] As used herein, “trimerization domain” refers to a
structural motif that aids the polymerization of expressed
proteins. Trimerization domains may aid soluble proteins to
conﬁgure as though they were bound to the membrane.
Trimerization domains, for example, may use coiled-coil
motifs to polymerize. An example of a trimerization domain
is seen in the basic leucine zipper. Basic leucine zippers
typically correlate to a coiled coil of a-helices, whereby the
positioning of leucine, or other hydrophobic amino acids, in
the helices interact to form a hydrophobic core. An example
of a basic leucine zipper is GCN4.

[0042] As used herein “treatment” may include any type
of intervention used in an attempt to alter the natural course

Jan. 3], 2019

of the individual or cell. Treatment may include, but is not
limited to, administration of e.g., a pharmaceutical compo-
sition, alone or in combination with other treatment modali-
ties generally known in the art. The “treatment” may be
performed prophylactically, or subsequent to the initiation of
a pathologic event.

[0043] As used herein, “pharrnaceutically acceptable car-
rier” may include any material which, when combined with
an active ingredient, allows the ingredient to retain biologi-
cal activity and is non-reactive with the subject’s inunune
system. Examples may include, but are not limited to,
standard pharmaceutical carriers such as a phosphate buff-
ered saline (PBS) solution, water, emulsions, and various
types of wetting agents.

[0044] As used herein, “fusion” may refer to nucleic acids
and polypeptides that comprise sequences that are not found
naturally associated with each other in the order or context
in which they are placed according to the present invention.
A fusion nucleic acid or polypeptide does not necessarily
comprise the natural sequence of the nucleic acid or poly-
peptide in its entirety. Fusion proteins have the two or more
segments joined together through normal peptide bonds.
Fusion nucleic acids have the two or more segments joined
together through normal phosphodiester bonds.

[0045] As used herein, “subject” may include the recipient
of the treatment to be practiced according to the invention.
The subject can be any animal, including a vertebrate. The
subject will in most cases, preferably be a human, but may
also be a domestic livestock, laboratory animal (including
but not limited to, rodents such as a rat or mouse) or pet
animal,

[0046] As used herein, “cleavage” may refer to the sev-
ering of an amino acid or nucleotide sequence. By way of
example, cleavage may occur with the use of enzymes, such
as trypsin and chymotrypsin. By way of further example,
nucleotide sequences can be cleaved with the use of restric-
tion endonucleases.

[0047] Nipah and Hendra viruses require the concerted
action of the attachment and fusion glycoproteins to infect
the host cell and insert the nucleocapsid. The present inven-
tion provides a soluble form of the F glycoprotein of both the
Nipah and Hendra viruses. For example, the absence of the
cytoplasmic and transmembrane regions of the carboxyl
terminus of the F glycoprotein allow for solubilization of the
protein. As a further example, use of the ﬁrst 488 amino
acids of NiV and HeV (a loss of 58 amino acids in both),
produces a soluble version of the F glycoprotein that retains
characteristics of the native protein. The present invention
includes polypeptides and fragments and analogs and
homologs thereof having substantially the same function as
the polypeptides of this invention. This invention also
encompasses proteins or peptides that are substantially
homologous to the polypeptides.

Soluble Forms of the F Glycoprotein of NiV and HeV

[0048] The present invention provides soluble forms of
NiV and HeV F glycoprotein from differing strains. The
present invention provides soluble forms of the F glycopro-
tein comprising an amino acid sequence with signiﬁcant
homology to the amino acid sequences of the extracellular
domain of native F glycoproteins of the Hendra and Nipah
virus. In a further embodiment, the soluble forms of the F
glycoprotein have at least 50% identity with native NiV or
HeV F glycoprotein, preferably at least about 70% identity,
US 2019/0031721A1

lane 3, HeV SF glycoprotein was loaded In lane 4, NiV SF
glycoprotein-GPI was loaded. FIG. 5A shows a westem blot
of approximately 2 ug of protein loaded per lane Immuno-
detection was done by using HRP conjugated anti S-peptide
antibody, FIG, SB shows Coomassie Blue staining of
approximately 5 ug of protein loaded per lane

[0025] FIGS. 6A-6C show ELISA titration of serum from
mice immunized with different sF protein as indicated in
Table 1, Plates were coated with 50 ng of HeV (FIG. 6A) or
NiV (FIG. 6B) sF GCN per well followed by blocking in 5%
BSA, PBS, 0,05% Tween 20. Two-fold serial dilution start-
ing from 1/2000 of each mouse serum, mAb D54 against
HIV-1 envelope-GCN, anti S peptide antibody, and Rabbit
anti HeV F 1 polyclonal antibody was carried out HRP
conjugated anti mouse IgG was used as secondary antibody,
Each serum titration was done in duplicates and the average
OD values were plotted against the serum dilution in log
values, HIV-1 envelope-GCN (FIG. 6C) was used to monitor
the titer of antibody generated against the GCN tail.
[0026] FIG, 7 shows immunoprecipmtion of full length
HeV or NiV F by different mouse serum. HeLa USU cells
were infected with recombinant vaccinia virus expressing
full length HeV or NiV F with MOI of 10 for 24 hours. Cells
were lysed and cleared by centrifugation. The lysates were
then divided equally into 7 portions. Each cell lysate fraction
was then added with 1 ul of serum from diiTerent mouse
immunized with different SF as indicated in Table 1. The
mixture was rotated at 4° C. overnight followed by pro-
tein-G bead precipitation at room temperature for 1 hr The
bound complex was then washed 3 times and subsequently
boiled in 50 [.11 SDS-PAGE sample loading buffer in reduc-
ing condition. 25 pl of the boiled samples were then ana-
lyzed on SDS-PAGE followed by western blotting The
precipitated F glycoprotein was detected using rabbit anti
HeV Fl polyclonal antibody. (ﬁve indicates pooled pre-
immunization serum).

[0027] FIG, 8 shows serum neutralization ofNiV F and G
pseudotyped luciferase reporter virus. NiV F and G
pseudovirus particles harboring the NL43 luciferase reporter
gene was pre—incubated with the mouse serum in 1/200,
1/400, and 1/800 (leﬁ to right) dilution at room temperature
for 1/2 hr. 293T cells were then infected with the mixture for
48 his The cells were then lysed and the luciferase activity
was measured. Each infection was done in triplicates. (ve
indicates pooled pre-immunization serum).

[0028] FIG, 9 shows representative equilibrium sedimen-
tation data (6,000 rpm) of HeV SF GCN (15 mg/ml) in PBS
with 001% Triton X-100 buffer at 4° C. Data are plotted as
absorbance versus the radius from the axis of rotation. The
data ﬁt closely to a trimeric complex. The deviation in the
data from the linear ﬁt for a trimeric model is plotted

(Upper)?
DETAILED DESCRIPTION

[0029] The Hendra virus (HeV) and Nipah virus (NiV) are
closely related members of the Hem’paviru: genus of the
Paramyxoviridae family, These viruses infect cells by a
pH-independent membrane fusion event mediated by their
attachment (G) and fusion (F) envelope glycoproteins
(Envs) Generally, this invention provides soluble forms of
HeV and NiV F glycoprotein, the nucleotide sequences
encoding the proteins and to methods for uSing these pro-
teins to diagnose, detect, prevent, and treat disease associ-
ated with infection by HeV and/or NiV. Speciﬁcally, this

Jan. 31, 2019

invention provides soluble forms of HeV and NiV F glyco-
protein which retain characteristics of the native F glyco-
protein,

[0030] The natural physiology of the F glycoprotein amino
acid sequence prevents the protein from being soluble in
aqueous solutions. The present invention provides soluble
forms of the HeV and NiV F glycoproteins comprising all or
part of the extracellular domain of F glycoprotein of a HeV
or NiV The soluble forms of F glycoprotein may be pro-
duced by deleting all or part of the transmembrane and
cytoplasmic tail domains of the F glycoprotein. By way of
example, a soluble F glycoprotein may comprise the com-
plete extracellular region of an HeV or NiV F glycoprotein.
Also, by way of example, a soluble F glycoprotein may
comprise all or part of the extracellular region and part of the
transmembrane domain of an HeV or NiV f glycoprotein. By
way, of further example, several versions of a soluble F (sF)
glycoprotein were constructed, primarily through removing
the cytoplasmic tail and/or transmembrane domain that
anchor the protein. Without these regions, the resulting
expressed F glycoprotein is soluble.

[0031] The sF glycoproteins of the invention are structur-
ally similar to the native viral F glycoprotein. By way of
example, the sF glycoproteins of the invention may be
recognized by polyclonal antibodies directed to HeV and/or
NiV. By way of example, the sF glycoproteins of the
invention may assemble in the oligomeric form or forms
(such as a trimer), comparable to native NiV and HeV F
glycoprotein.

[0032] The sF glycoproteins of the present invention are
suitable, for example, for vaccine development and for
acting as an antigen to generate anti-viral antibodies when
used aS a vaccine or in the isolation of recombinant mono-
clonal antibodies. The SF glycoproteins are suitable to
generate antibodies capable of recognizing native F glyco-
protein, The sF glycoproteins of the present invention that
assemble in oligomeric forms, such as trimers, can be of
further use, such as, for example, for crystallization and
structural determination to provide further information to aid
structural-based antiviral research The oligomeric forms of
sF glycoprotein of the present invention may also generate
further antibodies capable of recognizing native F glyco-
protein and its native oligomeric forms. Examples of meth-
odology that may be used include, but are not limited to, the
assays described herein in the Examples

[0033] As used herein, the singular form “a" or “an” or
“the" includes plural references unless indicated otherwise.
For example, “a” F glycoprotein includes one or more F
glycoproteins.

[0034] As used herein, “soluble F glycoprotein” or
“soluble form of F glycoprotein” or “sF glycoprotein” refers
to an amino acid sequence corresponding to a fragment or
portion of native F glycoprotein that contains the extracel-
lular domain or a portion thereof The sF glycoprotein is
structurally similar to the native viral F glycoprotein. By
way of example, removal of a transmembrane domain
increases solubility,

[0035] As used herein, the term “antibody" means an
immunoglobulin molecule or a fragment of an immuno-
globulin molecule having the ability to speciﬁcally bind to
a particular antigen. Antibodies are well known to those of
ordinary Skill in the science of immunology As used herein,
the term “antibody” means not only full-length antibody
molecules but also fragments of antibody molecules retain-
US 2019/0031721A1

(buﬁalo rat liver cells) (ATCC CRLl442); W138 (human
lung cells) (ATCC CCL75); HepG2 (human liver cells)
(HB8065); and MMT 060652 (mouse mammary tumor)
(ATCC CCLSI).

[0065] In other embodiments, the present invention pro-
vides nucleic acid molecules encoding a fusion protein
comprising the sF glycoprotein and additional polypeptides
Vectors useful for constructing eukaryotic expression sys-
tems for the production of fusion polypeptides comprise
nucleic acid encoding the fusion protein operatively linked
to an appropriate transcriptional activation sequence, such as
a promoter and/or operator. Other typical features may
include appropriate ribosome binding sites, termination
codons, enhancers, terminators, or replicon elements These
additional features can be inserted into the vector at the
appropriate site or sites by conventional splicing techniques
such as restriction endonuclease digestion and ligation.
[0066] In some embodiments, the nucleic acid molecules
encode a fusion protein comprising nucleic acids fused to
the nucleic acid encoding the sF glycoprotein. The fused
nucleic acid may encode polypeptides that may aid in
puriﬁcation and/or immunogenicity and/or stability without
shiﬁing the codon reading frame of the sF glycoprotein, In
some embodiments, the fused nucleic acid will encode for a
polypeptide to aid puriﬁcation of the sF glycoprotein. In
some embodiments the fused nucleic acid will encode for an
epitope and/or an afﬁnity tag. Examples of polypeptides that
aid puriﬁcation include, but are not limited to, a His-tag, a
myc-tag, an S-peptide tag, a MBP tag, a GST tag, a FLAG
tag, a thioredoxin tag, a GFP tag, a BCCP, a calmodulin tag,
a Strep tag, an HSV-epitope tag, a VS-epitope tag, and a CBP
tagi

[0067] In other embodiments, the fused nucleic acid will
encode for a polypeptide that correlates to a site directed for,
or prone to, cleavage. In preferred embodiments, the fused
nucleic acid will encode for polypeptides that are sites of
enzymatic cleavage. In further embodiments, the enzymatic
cleavage will aid to isolate the sF glycoprotein. as well as
other fused polypeptide segments, from yet other polypep-
tides. By way of example, an intermediary nucleic acid that
encodes for an enzymatic cleavage site placed between
nucleic acids that encode for sF glycoprotein and an S—pep-
tide epitope will allow for later separation of the expressed
sF glycoprotein and the S—peptide. In further preferred
embodiments, the fused nucleic acid will encode in part for
amino acids that are a site of cleavage by Factor Xa. In some
embodiments, the fused nucleic acid will encode for amino
acids that are membrane anchored and a site of cleavage. By
way of example, SEQ ID NO: 8 will anchor the fusion
polypeptide to the plasma membrane and is a site for
Phospholipase D cleavage,

[0068] In other embodiments, the fused nucleic acid will
encode in part for a polypeptide that aids the stability and
function of the soluble F glycoprotein. In further embodi-
ments, the fused nucleic acid will encode for polypeptides
that aid in forming oligomers of soluble F glycoprotein. In
preferred embodiments, the fused nucleic acid will encode
for a trimerization domain, A basic leucine zipper motifis an
example of a trimerization domain. By way of further
example, the basic leucine zipper motif is a GCN4 poly-
peptide segment

[0069] In other embodiments, the multiple nucleic acids
will be fused to the nucleic acid encoding sF glycoprotein.
The fused nucleic acids may encode for polypeptides that

Jan. 3], 2019

aid puriﬁcation and/or enzymatic cleavage and/or stability.
In further embodiments, the fused nucleic acids will not
elongate the expressed polypeptide signiﬁcantly. In further
embodiments, the fused nucleic acids will encode for less
than sixty extra amino acids to the sF glycoprotein. In some
embodiments, the fused nucleic acids follow after the
nucleic acid encoding the sF glycoprotein In other embodi-
ments, the fused nucleic acids precedes the nucleic acid
encoding sF glycoprotein. In other embodiments, the fused
nucleic acids ﬂank the nucleic acid encoding sF glycopro-
tein. In some embodiments, a fused nucleic acid that
encodes for an amino acid sequence prone to enzymatic
cleavage and is placed between the nucleic acid that encodes
for sF glycoprotein region and another fused nucleic acid
that encodes for a polypeptide to aid purification. In pre-
ferred embodiments, the nucleic acid molecule will be
arranged so that a cleavage domain will separate a polypep-
tide to aid puriﬁcation from the sF glycoprotein fused to a
trimerization domain.

Antibodies that Bind Soluble Forms of F Glycoprotein
[0070] Another aspect of the invention is directed to the
generation of antibodies. Examples of antibodies encom-
passed by the present invention, include, but are not limited
to, antibodies speciﬁc for HeV F glycoprotein, antibodies
speciﬁc for NiV F glycoprotein, antibodies that cross react
with HeV F glycoprotein and NiV F glycoprotein and
neutralizing: antibodies. The antibodies of the invention
may be characterized using methods well known in the art,
[0071] The antibodies useful in the present invention can
encompass monoclonal antibodies, polyclonal antibodies,
antibody fragments (e.g., Fab, Fab‘, F(ab‘)2, Fv, Fe, etc.),
chimeric antibodies, bispeciﬁc antibodies, heteroconjugate
antibodies, single chain (ScFv), mutants thereof, fusion
proteins comprising an antibody portion, humanized anti-
bodies and any other modiﬁed conﬁguration of the immu-
noglobulin molecule that comprises an antigen recognition
site of the required speciﬁcity, including glycosylation vari-
ants of antibodies, amino acid sequence variants of antibod-
ies, and covalently modiﬁed antibodies. Preferred antibodies
are derived from murine, rat, human, primate, or any other
origin (including chimeric and humanized antibodies).
[0072] In one embodiment the antibodies are polyclonal or
monoclonal antibodies. Methods of preparing monoclonal
and polyclonal antibodies are well known in the art.
[0073] In other embodiments, the antibodies are human-
ized by methods known in the art. A humanized antibody is
an immunoglobulin molecule that contains minimal
sequence derived from non-human immunoglobulin. In yet
other embodiments, fully human antibodies are obtained by
using commercially available mice that have been engi-
neered to express speciﬁc human immunoglobulin proteins.
In other embodiments, the antibodies are chimerici A chi-
meric antibody is an antibody that combines characteristics
from two diiferent antibodies. Methods of preparing chime-
ric antibodies are known in the art.

[0074] In other embodiments, the nucleotide sequence that
encodes the antibody is obtained and then cloned into a
vector for expression or propagation. In another embodi-
ment, antibodies are made recombinantly and expressed
using methods known in the art. By way of example, sF
glycoprotein may be used as an antigen for the purposes of
isolating recombinant antibodies by these techniques Anti-
bodies can be made recombinantly by using the gene
sequence to express the antibody recombinantly in host
US 2019/0031721A1

cells. Methods for making derivatives of antibodies and
recombinant antibodies are known in the art.

[0075] In other embodiments, the antibodies are bound to
a carrier by conventional methods in the art, for use in, for
example, isolating or purifying native Hendra or Nipah F
glycoproteins or detecting native Hendra or Nipah F glyco-
proteins in a biological sample or speciment In other
embodiments, neutralizing antibodies are administered as
passive immunotherapy to a subject infected with or sus-
pected of being infected with Hendra or Nipah virus.

[0076] An antibody is a heterotetrameric glycoprotein
composed of two identical light (L) chains and two identical
heavy (H) chains (an Igm antibody consists of ﬁve of the
basic heterotetramer unit along with an additional polypep-
tide called J chain, and therefore contain ten antigen binding
sites, while secreted IgA antibodies can polymerize to form
polyvalent assemblages comprising two to ﬁve of the basic
four chain units a ong, with J chain). The L chain from any
vertebrate species can be assigned to one of two clearly
distinct types, called kappa and lambda, based on the amino
acid sequences of their constant domains and the methods of
the current invention include the use of antibodies with
either a kappa or ambda L chain. Depending on the amino
acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains
(CH), immunoglo aulins can be assigned to different classes
or isotypes. There are ﬁve classes of iinintmoglobulins: IgA,
IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, having heavy chains designated
alpha, delta, epsi on, gamma and mu, respectively The
gamma and alpha classes are further divided into subclasses
on the basis of relatively minor differences in CH sequence
and function, e.g., rumans express the following subclasses:
IgG,, Ing, IgGB, gGA, IgAl and IgA2. The methods of the
present invention include the use of antibodies, including
monoclonal antibodies, from any of the above classes and/or
subclasses.

[0077] As used ‘rerein, the term “variable” refers to the
fact that certain segments of the variable domains differ
extensively in sequence among antibodies. The variable
domain mediates antigen binding and deﬁnes speciﬁcity of
a particular antibody for its particular antigen. However, the
variability is not evenly distributed across the llO-arnino
acid span of the variable domains. Instead, the variable
regions consist of relatively invariant stretches called frame-
work regions (FR) of about ﬁfteen to thirty amino acids
separated by shorter regions of extreme variability called
“hypervariable regions” that are each about nine to twelve
amino acids long. The Variable domains of native heavy and
light chains each comprise four framework regions, largely
adopting a beta-sheet conﬁguration, connected by three
hypervariable regions, which form loops connecting, and in
some cases forming part of, the beta-sheet structure, The
hypervariable regions in each chain are held together in
close proximity by the framework region and, with the
hypervariable regions from the other chain, contribute to the
formation of the antigen-binding site of antibodies (see
Kabat et al. (1991) Sequences of Proteins of immunological
Interest, Public Health Service, National institutes of
Health). The constant domains are not involved directly in
binding an antibody to an antigen, but exhibit various
effector functions, such as participation of the antibody in
antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC).

[0078] The term “hypervariable region” when used herein
refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody which are
responsible for antigen-binding. The hypervariable region

 

Jan. 3], 2019

generally comprises amino acid residues from a “comple-
mentarity determining region” or “CDR” which contributes
to the speciﬁcity of the antibody.

[0079] The term “antibodies or fragments thereof“ as used
herein refers to antibodies or fragments thereof that speciﬁ-
cally bind to a sF poly peptide or a fragment of a sF poly
peptide and do not speciﬁcally bind to other non-sF poly-
peptides. Preferably, antibodies or fragments that immuno-
speciﬁcally bind to a SP polypeptide or fragment thereof do
not non-speciﬁcally cross-react with other antigens (er bind-
ing cannot be competed away with a non-sF protein, e.g.,
BSA in an appropriate immunoassay). Antibodies or frag-
ments that immunospeciﬁcally bind to an SF polypeptide
can be identiﬁed, for example, by irnmunoassays or other
techniques known to those of skill in the art. Antibodies of
the invention include, but are not limited to, synthetic
antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, recombinantly produced
antibodies, intrabodies, diabodies, multispeciﬁc, antibodies
(including hi-speciﬁc: antibodies), human antibodies,
humanized antibodies, chimeric antibodies, single-chain Fvs
(scFv) (including bi-speciﬁc scfvs), single chain antibodies,
Fab' fragments, F(ab‘)2 fragments, disulﬁde-linked Fvs
(dev), and anti-idiotypic (an i-Id) antibodies, and epitope-
binding fragments of any of the above. In particular, anti-
bodies of the present invention include immunoglobulin
molecules and immunologically active portions of immu-
noglobulin molecules, molecules that contain an antigen
binding she that irnrnunospeciﬁcally binds to an sF antigen

(eg, one or more complementarity determining regions
(CDRs) of an anti-sF antibody).

[0080] The term “monoclonal antibody” as used herein
refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substan-
tially homogeneous antibodies, i,e., the individual antibod-
ies comprising the population are identical except for pos-
sible naturally occurring mutations that may be present in
minor amounts and includes antibody fragments as deﬁned
herein. Monoclonal antibodies are highly speciﬁc, being
directed against a single antigenic site. Furthermore, in
contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations which include
different antibodies directed against different determinants
(epitopes), each monoclonal antibody is directed against a
single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their
speciﬁcity, the monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in
that they may be synthesized uncontaminated by other
antibodies. The modiﬁer “monoclonal” is not to be con-
strued as requiring production of the antibody by any
particular method. For example, the monoclonal antibodies
useful in the present invention may he prepared by the
hybridoma methodology ﬁrst described by Kohler et a1.
(1975) Nature 256, 495 or may be made using recombinant
DNA methods in bacterial, eukaryotic animal or plant cells
(see US. Pat. No, 4,816,567). The “monoclonal antibodies”
may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the
techniques described in Clackson et a1. (1991) Nature 352:
624-628 and Marks et a1. (1991) J. Mol. Biol. 222. 581-597,
for example.

[0081] As used herein, an “intact" antibody is one which
comprises an antigen-binding site as well as a C L and at least
heavy chain constant domains, CH1 and C92 and CH? The
constant domains may be native sequence constant domains
(erg, human native sequence constant domains) or amino
acid sequence variant thereof. Preferably, the intact antibody
has one or more effector functions.
US 2019/0031721A1

cally synthesized peptide, such as adenylation, carboxy-
lation, glycosylation, hydroxylation, methylation, phospho-
rylation or myristylation. These added structural
modiﬁcations may be further be selected or preferred by the
appropriate choice of recombinant expression system, On
the other hand, fusion polypeptides may have their sequence
extended by the principles and practice of organic synthesis

Nucleic Acids Encoding Soluble Forms of F Glycoprotein

[0056] The present invention provides nucleic acid mol-
ecules encoding an amino acid sequence of a soluble form
of the F glycoprotein of NiV or HeV and variants thereof.
Nucleic acids may include single or double stranded forms
of deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides or polymers
thereof.

[0057] The present invention also provides a vector com-
prising a nucleic acid encoding for the F glycoprotein of NiV
or HeV A vector may be any of a number of nucleic acids
into which a desired sequence may be inserted by restriction
and ligation for transport between different genetic environ-
ments or for expression in a host cell. Vectors are typically
composed of DNA, although RNA vectors are also avail-
able, Vectors include, but are not limited to, plasmids and
phagemids. A cloning vector is one which is able to replicate
in a host cell, and which is further characterized by one or
more endonuclease restriction sites at which the vector may
be cut in a determinable fashion and into which a desired
DNA sequence may be ligated such that the new recombi-
nant vector retains its ability to replicate in the host cell. In
the case of plasmids, replication of the desired sequence may
occur many times as the plasmid increases in copy number
within the host bacterium or just a single time per host
before the host reproduces by mitosis, In the case ofphage,
replication may occur actively during a lytic phase or
passively during a lysogenic phase.

[0058] Vectors may further contain a promoter sequence.
A promoter may include an untranslated nucleic acid
sequence usually located upstream of the coding region that
contains the site for initiating transcription of the nucleic
acid. The promoter region may also include other elements
that act as regulators of gene expression. In further embodi-
ments of the invention, the expression vector contains an
additional region to aid in selection of cells that have the
expression vector incorporated. The promoter sequence is
often bounded (inclusively) at its 3‘ terminus by the tran-
scription initiation site and extends upstream (5' direction) to
include the minimum number of bases or elements necessary
to initiate transcription at levels detectable above back-
ground. Within the promoter sequence will be found a
transcription initiation site, as well as protein binding
domains responsible for the binding of RNA polymerase.
Eukaryotic promoters will oﬁen, but not always, contain
“TATA” boxes and “CAT" boxes.

[0059] Vectors may further contain one or more marker
sequences suitable for use in the identiﬁcation and selection
of cells which have been transformed or transfected with the
vector. Markers include, for example, genes encoding pro-
teins which increase or decrease either resistance or sensi-
tivity to antibiotics or other compounds, genes which encode
enzymes whose activities are detectable by standard assays
known in the art (e.g., D-galactosidase or alkaline phos-
phatase), and genes which visibly affect the phenotype of
transformed or transfected cells, hosts, colonies or plaques.
Preferred vectors are those capable of autonomous replica-

Jan. 3], 2019

tion and expression of the structural gene products present in
the DNA segments to which they are operably joined.
[0060] An expression vector is one into which a desired
nucleic acid sequence may be inserted by restriction and
ligation such that it is operably joined to regulatory
sequences and may be expressed as an RNA transcript.
Expression refers to the transcription and/or translation of an
endogenous gene, transgene or coding region in a cell.
[0061] A coding sequence and regulatory sequences are
operably joined when they are covalently linked in such a
way as to place the expression or transcription of the coding
sequence under the inﬂuence or control of the regulatory
sequences, If it is desired that the coding sequences be
translated into a functional protein, two DNA sequences are
said to be operably joined if induction of a promoter in the
5' regulatory sequences results in the transcription of the
coding sequence and if the nature of the linkage between the
two DNA sequences does not (1) result in the introduction
of a frame-shift mutation, (2) interfere with the ability of the
promoter region to direct the transcription of the coding
sequences, or (3) interfere with the ability of the correspond-
ing RNA transcript to be translated into a protein. Thus, a
promoter region would be operably joined to a coding
sequence if the promoter region were capable of effecting
transcription of that DNA sequence such that the resulting
transcript might be translated into the desired protein or
polypeptide.

[0062] Some aspects of the present invention include the
transformation and/or transfection of nucleic acid encoding
sF glycoprotein. Transformation is the introduction of exog-
enous or heterologous nucleic acid to the interior of a
prokaryotic cell. Transfection is the introduction of exog-
enous or heterologous nucleic acid to the interior of a
eukaryotic cell. The transforming or transfecting nucleic
acid may or may not be integrated (covalently linked) into
chromosomal DNA making up the genome of the cell. In
prokaryotes, for example, the transforming nucleic acid may
be maintained on an episomal element such as a plasmid or
viral vector. With respect to eukaryotic cells, a stably trans-
fected cell is one in which the transfecting nucleic acid has
become integrated into a chromosome so that it is inherited
by daughter cells through chromosome replication, This
stability is demonstrated by the ability of the eukaryotic cell
to establish cell lines or clones comprised of a population of
daughter cells containing the transfected nucleic acid.

[0063] Higher eukaryotic cell cultures may be used to
express the proteins of the present invention, whether from
vertebrate or invertebrate cells, including insects, and the
procedures of propagation thereof are known (see, for
example, Knise et al. (1973) Tissue Culture, Academic
Press).

[0064] Suitable host cells for expressing the polypeptides
of the present invention in higher eukaryotes include: 293
(human embryonic kidney) (ATCC CRL-1573); 293F (Invit-
rogen, Carlsbad Calif); 293T and derivative 293T/17
(293tsA1609neo and derivative ATCC CRL-11268) (human
embryonic kidney transformed by SV40 T antigen); COS-7
(monkey kidney CVI line transformed by SV40)(ATCC
CRL1651); BHK (baby hamster kidney cells) (ATCC
CRLIO); CHO (Chinese hamster ovary cells); mouse Sertoli
cells; CVI (monkey kidney cells) (ATCC CCL70); VERO76
(African green monkey kidney cells) (ATCC CRL1587);
HeLa (human cervical carcinoma cells) (ATCC CCL2);
MDCK (canine kidney cells) (ATCC CCL34); BRL3A
US 2019/0031721A1

Jan. 31, 2019

, cont inued

<210> SEQ ID NO 11

<211> LENGTH: 12

<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial
<220> FEATURE:

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Nucleotide sequence for Factor X3

<400> SEQUENCE: ll

atcgagggca gg

<210> SEQ ID NO 12

<211> LENGTH: 4

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial
<220> FEATURE:

12

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Amino acid sequence for Factor xa

<400> snowmen: 12

Ile Glu Gly Arg
1

1-25. (canceled)

26. A soluble polypeptide comprising a soluble antigenic
form of a Hendra F glycoprotein, wherein (i) the glycopro-
tein consists of an amino acid sequence with at least 90
percent sequence identity to amino acids 1 to 488 of SEQ ID
NO: 4, (ii) the glycoprotein is fused to a second peptide, and
(iii) the second peptide is a trinierization domain which is
SEQ ID NO: 10.

27. The soluble polypeptide of claim 26, wherein the
glycoprotein has at least 98 percent identity to amino acids
1 to 488 of SEQ ID NO: 2.

28. The soluble polypeptide of claim 26, wherein the
glycoprotein comprises amino acids 1 to 488 of SEQ ID NO:
2.

29. The soluble polypeptide of claim 26, wherein the
glycoprotein consists of amino acids 1 to 488 of SEQ ID
NO: 2,

30, The soluble polypeptide of claim 26, wherein the
second peptide is located in proximity to the carboxyl
terminus of the glycoprotein.

31. A pharmaceutical composition comprising the soluble
polypeptide of claim 26 and a pharmaceutically acceptable
carrier.

32, A diagnostic kit for detecting a Henipavirus infection
in a subject comprising the soluble polypeptide of claim 26,

33. A method of eliciting an immune response in a human
subject in need thereof comprising administering to the
subject the pharmaceutical composition of claim 31.

*a=a=**
US 2019/0031721A1

more preferably at least about 80%, more preferably still at
least about 90%, and most preferably at least about 98%
sequence identity, In one embodiment, the polypeptide com-
prises SEQ ID NO: 2. In another embodiment, the polypep-
tide comprises SEQ ID NO: 4, The sF glycoproteins may
further encompass amino acid insertions, substitutions and/
or deletions that have minimal to no effect on the activity,
function or shape of the polypeptide. Examples of such
substitutions include the substitution of one non-polar resi-
due for another, the substitution of one polar residue for
another, the substitution of one basic residue for another. or
the substitution of one acidic residue for another. The sF
glycoprotein may further include insertions, substitutions
and/or deletions of amino acids in a comparison to the amino
acid sequence of the extracellular domain of native NiV or
HeV F glycoprotein that yield minimal etfect on the activity,
function and/or structure of the polypeptide. Those skillec in
the art will recognize non-natural amino acids may also be
used, Non-natural amino acids include, for example, beta-
alanine (beta-Ala), or other omega-amino acids, such as
3-amino propionic, 2,3-diamino propionic (2,3-dia 3),
4-amino butyric and so forth, alpha-aminisobutyric acid
(Aib), sarcosine (Sat), omithine (Om), citrulline (Cit), t-bu-
tylalanine (t-BuA), t-butylglycine (t-BuG), N-methylisoleu-
cine (N-Melle), phenylglycine (Phg), and cyclohexylalanine
(Cha), norleucine (Nle), cysteic acid (Cya) 2-naphthy1a a-
nine (2-Nal); l,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic
acid (T ic); beta-2-thienylalanine (Thi); and methionine sul-
foxide (M80)

[0049] The sF glycoprotein of the present invention may
be prepared by any known techniques. For example, tie
polypeptides may be expressed through genetic engineering.
By way of example, the translation of recombinant DNA,
The polypeptides may also be prepared synthetically. By
way of example, the polypeptide may be synthesized using
the solid-phase synthetic technique initially described y
Merriﬁeld (J. Am Chem. Soc. 852149-2154), which is
incorporated herein by reference, Other polypeptide synthe-
sis techniques may be found, for example, Kent et a1. (1985)
in Synthetic Peptides in Biology and Medicine, eds. Alitalo
et al., Elsevier Science Publishers, 295-358,

 

[0050] The sF glycoprotein of the present invention may
be isolated or obtained in substantially pure form. Substan-
tially pure means that the proteins and/or polypeptides
and/or peptides are essentially free of other substances with
which they may be found in nature or in vivo systems to an
extent practical and appropriate for their intended use. In
particular, the sF glycoproteins are sufﬁciently pure and are
suﬂiciently free from other biological constituents of their
host cells so as to be useful in, for example, generating
antibodies, sequencing, or producing pharmaceutical prepa-
rations, By techniques well known in the art, substantially
pure polypeptides may be produced in light of the nucleic
acid and amino acid sequences disclosed herein. Because a
substantially puriﬁed polypeptide of the invention may be
admixed with a phannaceutically acceptable carrier in a
pharmaceutical preparation, the polypeptide may comprise
only a certain percentage by weight of the preparation, The
polypeptide is nonetheless substantially pure in that it has
been substantially separated from the substances with which
it may be associated in living systems.

Jan. 3], 2019

Fusion Polypeptides Comprising Soluble F Glycoprotein

[0051] The present invention further provides isolated
fusion polypeptides comprising sF glycoprotein and addi-
tional polypeptides, The additional polypeptides may be
fragments of a larger polypeptide, In one embodiment, there
are one, two, three, four, or more additional polypeptides
fused to the sF glycoprotein, In some embodiments, the
additional polypeptides are fused toward the amino terminus
of the sF glycoprotein. In other embodiments, the additional
polypeptides are fused toward the carboxyl terminus of the
sF glycoprotein. In further embodiments, the additional
polypeptides ﬂank the sF glycoprotein,

[0052] In some embodiments, the additional polypeptides
aid the stabilization, structure and/or the puriﬁcation of the
sF glycoprotein. In some embodiments, the additional poly-
peptides assist the sF glycoprotein to form oligomers, such
as a trimer. Oligomers may assist sF glycoproteins to con-
ﬁgure in a manner more similar to native F glycoprotein, By
way of example, a trimerization domain fused to sF glyco-
protein may stabilize the polypeptide and may further
increase polymerization of the polypeptide.

[0053] In some embodiments the additional polypeptides
may comprise an epitope, In other embodiments, the addi-
tional polypeptides may comprise an afﬁnity tag. By way of
example, fusion of a polypeptide comprising an epitope
and/or an afﬁnity tag to sF glycoprotein may aid puriﬁcation
and/or identiﬁcation of the polypeptide. By way of example,
the polypeptide segment may be a His-tag, a myc-tag, an
S-peptide tag, a MBP tag (maltose binding protein), a GST
tag (glutathione S-transferase), a FLAG tag, a thioredoxin
tag, a GFP tag (green ﬂuorescent protein), a BCCP (biotin
carboxyl carrier protein), a calmodulin tag, a Strep tag, an
HSV-epitope tag, a V5-epitope tag, and a CRP tag. The use
of such epitopes and aﬂinity tags is known to those skilled
in the art.

[0054] In further embodiments, the additional polypep-
tides may provide a fusion protein comprising sites for
cleavage of the polypeptide As an example, a polypeptide
may be cleaved by hydrolysis of the peptide bond. In some
embodiments, the cleavage is performed by an enzyme. In
some embodiments cleavage occurs in the cell. In other
embodiments, cleavage occurs through artiﬁcial manipula-
tion and/or artiﬁcial introduction of a cleaving enzymei By
way of example, cleavage enzymes may include pepsin,
trypsin, chymotrypsin, and/or Factor Xa. The additional
polypeptides may provide for a membrane anchor domain.
The membrane anchor domain may be a site for cleavage.
For example, Phospholipase D will cleave the membrane
anchor domain of SEQ ID NO: 8. Moreover, cleavage
allows ease of isolating the sF glycoprotein from the poly-
peptides. Cleavage may also allow isolation of sF glycopro-
tein fused to polypeptides from other polypeptides. By way
of example, a Factor Xa cleavage site may allow isolation of
sF glycoprotein fused to a trimerization domain from an
S-peptide tag. The present invention provides sF glycopro-
tein fused to a trimerization domain, a Factor Xa cleavage
domain and an S-peptide tag. The trimerization domain
allows for the association of sF glycoprotein as an oligomer.
The S—peptide tag allows for puriﬁcation through the use of
anti-S—peptide antibodies. The Factor Xa cleavage domain
allows for separation of the sF glycoprotein fused to the
trimerization domain from the S-peptide tag.

[0055] Fusion polypeptides may further possess additional
structural modiﬁcations not shared with the same organi-
US 2019/0031721A1

example, to enhance the immunogenicity of a soluble F
glycoprotein of the invention being administered as a sub-
unit vaccine, the pharmaceutical composition may further
comprise an adjuvant.

Vaccines for Henipaviruses

[0093] Another aspect of the invention is directed toward
the use of the sF glycoprotein as vaccinating agent. The
formulation of a vaccine or irnmunogenic compositions of
the invention will employ an effective amount of the poly-
peptide antigen. That is, there will be included an amount of
antigen which will cause the subject to produce a speciﬁc
and suﬂicient immunological response so as to impart pro-
tection to the subject from subsequent exposure to Hendra or
Nipah vims. In one embodiment, HeV or NiV sF glycopro-
tein, or a combination thereof, is administered by itself or in
combination with an adjuvant.

[0094] Adjuvants include aluminum salts (alum), Com-
plete Freund’s Adjuvant (CFA), Incomplete Freund’s Adju-
vant (IFA), Muramyl dipeptide (MDP), synthetic analogues
of MDP ,N-acetylmuramyl-L-alany1-D-isoglutamyl-L-ala-
nine-2-[l,2-dipalmitoy-s-glycero-3 -(hydroxyphosphory-
loxy)]ethylamide (MTP-PE) and compositions containing a
metabolizable oil and an emulsifying agent, wherein the oil
and emulsifying agent are present in the form of an oil-in-
water emulsion having oil droplets substantially all of which
are less than one micron in diameter (see, for example, EP
0399843).

[0095] In some embodiments, the adjuvant comprises a
Toll like receptor (TLR) 4 ligand. in combination with a
saponin, The Toll like receptor (TLR) 4 ligand may be for
example, an agonist such as a lipid A derivative particularly
monophosphoryl lipid A or more particularly 3 Deacylated
monophoshoryl lipidA (3 D-MPL). 3 D-MPL is sold under
the trademark MPL® by Corixa Corporation and primarily
promotes CD4+T cell responses with an IFN-g (Thl) phe-
notype. It can be produced according to the methods dis-
closed in GB 2220211A. Chemically, it is a mixture of
3-deacylated monophosphoryl lipid A with 3, 4, 5 or 6
acylated chains. In one embodiment in the compositions of
the present invention small particle 3 D-MPL is used. Small
particle 3 D-MPL has a particle size such that it may be
sterile-ﬁltered through a 0.22 pm ﬁlter. Such preparations
are described in PCT Patent Application WO 9421292.
[0096] The adjuvant may also comprise one or more
synthetic derivatives of lipid A which are known to be TLR
4 agonists including, but not limited to: OM174 (2-deoxy-
6-0-[2-deoxy-2-[(R)-3-dodecanoyloxytetra-decanoy-
lamino]-4 -o-phosphono-[3-D-glucopyranosyl]-2-[(R)-3-hy-
droxytetradecanoylamino]-a-D-
glucopyranosyldihydrogenphosphate), as described in PCT
Patent Application W0 95/ 14026; CM 294 DP (3S, 9
R)—3-[(R)-dodecanoyloxytetradecanoylamino]-4-oxo-5-aza-
9(R)-[(R)-3-hydroxytetradecanoylamino]decan-1,10—diol,
l,10-bis(dihyd.rogenophosphate), as described in WC
9964301 and WO 00/0462; and, OM 197 MP-Ac DP (38-,
9R)-3 - [(R)-dodecanoyloxytetradecanoylamino] -4 -oxo -5
-aza-9-[(R)-3-hydroxytetradecanoylamino]decan-l ,lO-diol,
l -dihydrogenophosphate 10-(6-aminohexanoate) (WO
01/46127).

[0097] Other TLR4 ligands which may be used include,
but are not limited to, alkyl Glucosaminide phosphates
(AGPs) such as those disclosed in WO 98/50399 or US. Pat.
No. 6,303,347 (processes for preparation of AGPs are also

Jan. 31, 2019

disclosed), or pharmaceutically acceptable salts of AGPs as
disclosed in US. Pat. No. 6,764,840. Some AGPs are TLR4
agonists, and some are TLR4 antagonists. Both can be used
as one or more adjuvants in the compositions of the inven-
tion.

[0098] A preferred saponin for use in the present invention
is Quil Aand its derivatives. Quil A is a saponin preparation
isolated from the South American tree Quilaja Saponaria
Molina and was ﬁrst described as having adjuvant activity
by Dalsgaard et a1. (1974) Saponin adjuvants, Archiv. ﬁir die
gesamte Vinisforschung, Vol, 44, Springer Verlag, pp. 243-
254. Puriﬁed fragments of Quil A have been isolated by
HPLC which retain adjuvant activity without the toxicity
associated with Quil A (EP 0 362 278), for example Q87 and
QSZl (also known as QA7 and QA21). QS21 is a natural
saponin derivec from the bark of Quillaja saponaria Molina
which induces CD8+ cytotoxic T cells (CTLs), Thl cells and
a predominant gG2a antibody response and is a preferred
saponin in the context of the present invention.

[0099] Particular formulations of QS21 have been
described whic are particularly preferred, these formula-
tions further comprise a sterol (WO 96/33739). The saponins
forming part of the present invention may be separate in the
form of micelles, mixed micelles (preferentially, but not
exclusively witi bile salts) or may be in the form of ISCOM
matrices (EP 0109942 Bl), liposomes or related colloidal
stmctures such as worm-like or ring-like multimeric com-
plexes or lipidic/layered structures and lamellae when for-
mulated with c olesterol and lipid, or in the form of an oil
in water emulsion (for example as in WO 95/17210). The
saponins may 3e associated with a metallic salt, such as
aluminium hydroxide or aluminium phosphate (W0
98/ 15287). In some embodiments, the saponin is presented
in the form 0 a liposome, ISCOM or an oil in water
emulsion.

[0100] In some embodiments, adjuvants are combinations
of 3D-MPL and QS21 (EP 0671948 B1) and oil in water
emulsions comprising 3D-MPL and QS21 (WO 95/17210,
WO 98/56414).

[0101] Other aspects contemplate use of sF glycoprotein
as a subunit vaccine. A subunit vaccine refers to the use of
a fragment of a virus as an inoculating agent. Those skilled
in the art will know subunit vaccines oifer a means to
generate antibodies to a particular part or region of a virus,
By way of example, a recombinant form of a surface
receptor of a vims may serve as a subunit vaccine. A subunit
vaccine comprising HeV or NiV soluble F glycoprotein, or
combinations thereof, can be administered orally, intrave-
nously, subcutaneously, intra-arterially, intramuscularly,
intracardially, intraspinally, intradtoracically, intraperitone-
ally, intraventricularly, sublingually, and/or transdermally,
Dosage schedule of administration and eﬂicacy of subunit
vaccines can be determined by methods known in the art,

 

Method of Using Soluble Forms of F Glycoprotein

[0102] One aspect of the present invention is directed in
part to the treatment, the prevention, and the detection of
NiV and/or HeV In some embodiments, an animal receives
treatment and/or prevention and/or detection of NiV and/or
HeV. In preferred embodiments, the animal is a human For
example, the polypeptides of the present invention may be
used to raise antibodies to NiV and/or HeV in vivo. By way
of further example, the polypeptides of the present invention
may be used to determine if a subject produces antibodies to
US 2019/0031721 A1 Jan. 31,2019
16

scoutinued
actcatgacc ttgtcggtga tgtgagatta gccggagtta taatggcagg agttgctatt 360
gggattgcaa ccgcagctca aatcactgca ggcgtagcac tatatgaggc aatgaagaat 420
gctgacaaca tcaacaaact caaaagcagc attgaatcaa ctaatgaagc tgtcgttaaa 480
cttcaagaga ctgcagaaaa gacagtctac gtgctgactg ctctacagga ttacattaat 540
actaatttag taccgacaat tgacaagata agctgcaaac agacagaact ctcactagat 600
ctggcattat caaagtacct thtgatttg Ctttttgtat ttggccccaa ccttcaagac 660
ccagtttcta attcaatgac tatacaggct atatctcagg cattcggtgg aaattatgaa 720
acactgctaa gaacattggg ttacgctaca gaagactttg atgatcttct agaaagtgac 780
agcataacag gtcaaatcat ctatgttgat ctaagtagct actatataat tgtcagggtt 840
tattttccta ttctgactga aattcaacag gcctatatcc aagagttgtt accagtgagc 900
ttcaacaatg atgattcaga atggatcagt attgtcccaa atttcatatt ggtaaggaat 950

acattaatat caaatataga gattggattt tgcctaatta caaagaggag cgtgatctgc 1020
aaccaagatt atgccacacc tatgaccaac aacatgagag aatgtttaac gggatcgact 1080
gagaagtgtc ctcgagagct ggttgtttca tcacatgttc ccagatttgc actatctaac 1140
ggggttctgt ttgccaattg cataagtgtt acatgtcagt gtcaaacaac aggcagggca 1200
atctcacaat caggagaaca aactctgctg atgattgaca acaccacctg tcctacagcc 1260
gtactcggta atgtgattat cagcttaggg aaatatctgg ggtcagtaaa ttataattct 1320
gaaggcattg ctatcggtcc tccagtcttt acagataaag ttgatatatc aagtcagata 1380
tccagcatga atcagtcctt acaacagtct aaggactata tcaaagaggc tcaacgactc 1440

cttgatactg ttaatccatc atta 1454

<210> SEQ ID No 4

<211> LENGTH: 488

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Nipah Virus

<400> SEQUmCE: 4

Met Val Val Ile Leu Asp Lys Arg Cys Ty: Q’s Asn Leu Leu 115 Leu
1 5 1o 15

116 Leu Met 116 Sex Glu Cys Ser Val Gly Ile Leu His Tyr Glu Lys
20 25 3o

Lem Ser Lys Ile Gly Lem Val Lys Gly Val Thr Arg Lys Tyr Lys Ile
35 40 45

Lys Ser Asn Pro Leu Thr Lys Asp Ile Val Ile Lys Met Ile Pro Asn
so 55 50

Val Ser Asp Met Sex Gln Cys 1hr Gly Ser Val Met Glu Asn Tyr Lys
55 7o 75 so

Thr Arg Leu Asn Gly Ile Leu Thr Fro Ile Lys Gly Ala Leu Glu Ile
35 9o 95

Tyr Lys Asn Asn Thr His Asp Leu Val Sly Asp Val Arg Leu Ala 61}!
100 105 110

Val Ile Met Ala Gly Val Ala Ile Gly Ile Ala Thr Ala Ala Gln Ile
115 120 125

Thr Ala Gly Val Ala Lem Tyr Glu Ala Mel: Lys Asn Ala Asp Asn Ile
130 135 140

Asn Lys Leu Lys Se): Ser Ile Glu Ser Thr Asn Glu Ala V31 V31 Lys
US 2019/0031721 A1 Jan. 31,2019
15

, cont illued

Lys Gln Thr Glu Leu Ala Leu Asp Lem Ala Leu Ser Lys Tyr Leu ser
195 200 205

Asp Leu Leu Phe Val Phe Gly Pxo Asn Leu Gln Asp Pro V3]. Ser Asn
210 215 220

Ser Met Thx Ile Gln Ala Ile Sex Gln Ala Phe Gly Gly Asn Tyr Glu
225 230 235 240

Thr Leu Leu Arg Thr Leu Gly lyr Ala Thr Glu Asp Phe Asp Gly Leu
245 250 255

Lem Glu Ser Asp ser lle Thr Gly Gln Ile val Tyr Val Asp Leu Ser
260 265 270

Sex Ty: Tyx lle lle Val Axg Val Tyr Phe Pxo lle Leu Thr Glu lle
275 280 285

G111 Gln Ala Tyr Val Gln Glu Leu Lea Pro val Ser Fhe Asn Asn Asp
290 295 300

Asn Ser Glu Trp Ile Ser Ile Val Pro Asn Phe Val Leu Ile Arg Asn
305 310 315 320

Thr Leu lle Sex Asn lle Glu Val Lys Tyx Q’s Leu lle Thr Lys Lys
325 330 335

Sex Val lle cys Asn G111 Asp Tyr Ala Thr Pro Met Thr Ala Ser val
340 345 350

Arg Glu Cys Leu Thx Gly Ser Thx Asp Lys Cys Pro Arg Glu Leu Val
355 360 355

Val Ser Sex His Val Pro Axg Phe Ala Leu Ser Gly Gly Val Leu Phe
370 375 380

Ala Asn W5 lle Ser Val Thr W5 Gln Cys Gln Thr Thr Gly Axg Ala
335 390 395 400

Ile ser Gln ser Gly Glu Gln Thr Lea Leu Met Ile Asp Asn Thr Thr
405 410 415

Cys Thr Thx Val Val Leu Sly Asn lle lle lle Sex Leu Sly Lys Tyx
420 425 430

Leu Gly Sex Ile Asn Tyr Asn Sex Glu Sex Ile Ala Val Sly Pro Pro
435 440 445

Val Tyx Thr Asp Lys Val Asp lle Sex Sex Gln Ile Sex Sex Met Asn
450 455 450

G111 Sex Leu Gln Gln Sex Lys Asp Tyr Ile Lys Glu Ala Gln Lys lle
465 470 475 430

Lea Asp Thr Val Asn Fro ser Leu
485

<210> SEQ ID NO 3
<211> LENGTH: 1464
<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Nipah vixus

<400> SEQUENCE: 3

atggtagtta tacttgacaa gagatgttat tgtaatcttt taatattgat tttgatgatc so
tcggagtgta gtgttgggat tctacattat gagaaattga gtaaaattgg acttgtcaaa 120
ggagtaacaa gaaaatacaa gattaaaagc aatcctctca caaaagacat tgttataaaa 180
atgattccga atgtgtcgga catgtctcag tgcacaggga gtgtcatgga aaattataaa 24o

acacgattaa acggtatctt aacacctata aagggagcgt tagagatcta caaaaacaac 300
US 2019/0031721A1

[0082] An “antibody fragment” comprises a portion of an
intact antibody, preferably the antigen binding CDR or
variable region of the intact antibody. Examples of antibody
fragments include Fab, Fv, Fab' and F(ab')2 fragments;
diabodies; linear antibodies (see. U.S. Pat. No. 5,641,870
and Zapata et al. (1905) Protein Eng 8. 1057-1062); single-
chain antibody molecules; and Multispeciﬁc antibodies
ﬁrmed from antibody fragments

[0083] Papain digestion of antibodies produces two iden-
tical antigen-binding fragments, called “Fab” fragments, and
a residual “Fe” fragment, a designation reﬂecting the ability
to cry stallize readily. The Fab fragment consists of an entire
L chain along with the variable region domain of the H chain
(VH , and the ﬁrst constant domain of one heavy chain
(Cm), Each Fab fragment is monovalent with respect to
antigen binding, i.e., it has a single antigen-binding site.
Pepsin treatment of an antibody yields a single large F(ab')2
fragment which roughly corresponds to two disulﬁde linked
Fab fragments having divalent antigen-binding activity and
is still capable of cross-linking antigen. Fab' fragments differ
from Fab fragments by having additional few residues at the
carboxy terminus of the CH1 domain including one or more
cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab'-SH is the
designation harem for Fab‘ in which the cysteine residue(s)
of the constant domains bear a free thiol group. F(ab’)2
antibody fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab‘
fragments which have hinge cysteines between them. Other
chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known
[0084] The Fc fragment comprises the carboxy-terminal
portions of both H chains held together by disulﬁdes. The
eEector functions of antibodies are determined by sequences
in the Fc region, which region is also the part recognized by
Fc receptors (FcR) found on certain types of cells.

[0085] As used herein, “Fv” is the minimum antibody
fragment which contains a complete anti gen-recognition and
-binding site. This fragment consists of a dimer of one
heavy- and one light-chain variable region domain in tight,
non-covalent association. From the folding of these two
domains emanate six hypervariabie loops (three loops each
from the H and L chain) that contribute the amino acid
residues for antigen binding and confer antigen binding,
speciﬁcity to the antibody. However, even a single variable
domain (or half of an Fv comprising only three CDRs
speciﬁc for an antigen) has the ability to recognize and bind
antigen, although at a lower afﬁnity than the entire binding
site

[0086] As used herein, “Single-chain Fv” also abbreviated
as “st” or “scFv” are antibody fragments that comprise the
VH and VL antibody domains connected into a single
polypeptide chain. Preferably, the st polypeptide further
comprises a polypeptide linker between the VH and VL
domains which enables the st to form the desired stnrcture
for antigen binding (see Rosenburg et a1. (1994) The Phar-
macology of Monoclonal Antibodies, Springer-Verlag, pp.
269-315).

[0087] As used herein, the term “diabodies” refers to small
antibody fragments prepared by constructing st fragments
(see preceding paragraph) with short linkers (about 5 to
about 10 residues) between the VH and VL domains such that
inter-chain but not infra-chain pairing of the V domains is
achieved, resulting in a bivalent fragment, ire., fragment
having two antigen-binding sitesi Bispeciﬁc diabodies are
heterodimers of two “crossover” st fragments in which the
VH and VL domains of the two antibodies are present on

Jan. 31, 2019

different polypeptide chains. Diabodies are described more
fully in, for example, WO 93/111161 and Hollinger et a1.
(1993) Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 90. 6444-6448.

[0088] An “isolated antibody" is one which has been
identiﬁed and separated and/or recovered from a component
of its natural environment Contaminant components of its
natural environment are materials which would interfere
with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody, and may
include enzymes, hormones, and other proteinaceous or
non-proteinaceous components. In preferred embodiments,
the antibody will be puriﬁed to greater than 95% by weight
of antibody, and most preferably more than 99% by weight,
Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recom-
binant cells since at least one component of the antibody’s
natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily, how-
ever, isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one
puriﬁcation step.

[0089] In one embodiment of the invention, the conju-
gated antibody binds to an epitope on the cytoplasmic
domain of a protein speciﬁc to cancer cells (i.e., a cancer cell
marker). In another embodiment, the conjugated antibody
includes, but is not limited to, an antibody which binds to an
epitope on the cytoplasmic domain of sF,

Pharmaceutical Compositions Comprising sF Glycoprotein

[0090] Another aspect of the invention is directed toward
the use of the soluble F glycoprotein as part of a phamia-
ceutical composition. The antibodies and nucleic acids of the
present invention may also be used as pan of a pharmaceu-
tical composition. The compositions used in the methods of
the invention generally comprise, by way of example and
not imitation, and effective amount of a nucleic acid or
pol Jeptide (eg, an amount sufﬁcient to induce an immune
response of the invention or antibody of the invention (e.g.,
an amount of a neutralizing antibody suﬂicient to mitigate
infection, alleviate a symptom of infection and/or prevent
infection) The nucleic acids, polypeptides, and antibodies
of tie invention can further comprise pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers, excipients, or stabilizers known in the
art (see generally Remington, (2005) The Science and
Practice of Pharmacy, Lippincott, Williams and Wilkins).
[0091] The nucleic acids, poly peptides, and antibodies of
the Jresent invention may be in the form of lyophilized
formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers,
exci ients, or stabilizers may be nontoxic to recipients at the
dosages and concentrations that are administered. Carriers,
excipients or stabilizers may further comprise buffers
Examples of buffers include, but are not limited to, carbo-
hydrates (such as monosaccharide and disaccharide), sugars
(suci as sucrose, mannitol, and sorbitol), phosphate, citrate,
antioxidants (such as ascorbic acid and methionine), preser-
vatives (such as phenol, butanol, benzanol; alkyl parabens,
catechol, octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride,
hexamethoniuni chloride, resorcinol, cyclohexanol, 3-pen-
tano , benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, and
m-cresol), low molecular weight polypeptides, proteins
(suci as serum albumin or immunoglobulins), hydrophilic
polymers amino acids, chelating agents (such as EDTA),
salt-fonning counter-ions, metal complexes (such as Zn-
protein complexes), and non-ionic surfactants (such as
TW'EENTM and polyethylene glycol),

[0092] The pharmaceutical composition of the present
invention can further comprise additional agents that serve
to enhance and/or complement the desired effect. By way of
US 2019/0031721 A1 Jan. 31,2019
17

scoutinued
145 150 155 160

Lea Gln Glu Thr Ala Glu Lys Thr Val Ty: val Leu Thr Ala Leu Gln
165 170 175

Asp Ty: Ile Asn Th: Asn Leu Val Pro Th: Ile Asp Lys Ile Se: Cys
180 185 190

Lys Gln Thr Glu Leu Ser Leu Asp Lsu Ala Leu Ssr Lys Ty: Leu Ser
195 200 205

Asp Leu Leu Phs Val Phs Gly Pro Asn Leu Gln Asp P:o Val Se: Asn
210 215 220

Se: Mel: Thr lle Gln Ala 11s Ser G111 Ala Phs Gly Gly Asn Ty: Glu
225 230 235 240

Th: Leu Leu Arg Thr Lem Gly Tyr Ala Th: Glu Asp Phe Asp Asp Leu
245 250 255

Leu Glu Se: Asp Se: Ile Th: 61}! Gln Ile Ile Ty: Val Asp Leu Se:
250 255 270

Se: Ty: Tyr 116 He Val Arg Val Ty: Phe Pro Ile Leu Th: Glu Ile
275 230 235

G111 Gln Ala Tyr Ile Gln Glu Leu Leu Pro Val Ser Phe Asn Asn Asp
290 295 300

Asp Ser Glu T:p Ile Se: 11s val P:o Asn Phs Ile Lem Val A:g Asn
305 310 315 320

Thr Leu Ile Se: Asn 112 Glu Ile Gly Phe Cys Leu lls Th: Lys A:g
325 330 335

Ser Val Ile Cys Asn Gln Asp Tyr Ala Th: Pro Met Th: Asn Asn Met
340 345 350

Arg Glu W5 Lsu Thr Gly Se: Thr Glu Lys Q’s Pro A:g Glu Leu Val
355 360 365

Val Ser Ser His Val Pro Arg Phe Ala Leu Ser Asn Gly Val Leu Phe
370 375 380

Ala Asn Cys Ile Se: Val Th: Cys Gln Cys Gln Th: Th: Sly A:g Ala
335 390 395 400

Ile Ser Gln Ser Gly Glu Gln Thr Leu Leu Met Ile Asp Asn Thr Thr
405 410 415

Cys P:o Thr Ala Val Leu Gly Asn Val 115 115 Ssr Leu Gly Lys 13;:
420 425 430

Leu Gly Ser Val Asn Ty: Asn Ser Glu Gly 115 Ala 11s Gly P:o Pro
435 440 445

Val Phs Thr Asp Lys Val Asp Ile Se: Ser Gln Ile Se: Ser Mel: Asn
450 455 460

Gln Se: Leu Gln Gln Se: Lys Asp Ty: Ile Lys Glu Ala Gln A:g Leu
455 470 475 490

Leu Asp Th): Val Asn Pro Se]: Leu
485

<210> SEQ ID NO 5

<211> LENGTH: 48

<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial

<220> FEATURE:

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Nucleotide sequence for S-peptide

<400> SEQUENCE: 5

aaggagaccg ctgctgctaa gttcgaacgc cagcacatgg attcttga 4s
US 2019/0031721A1
18

, cont inued

<210> SEQ ID No 6

<211> LENGT I 15

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial

<220> FEATURE:

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Amino acid sequence for S-peptide

 

<400> SEQUENCE: 6

Lys Glu Thr Ala Ala Ala Lys Phe Glu Arg Gln His Met Asp Ser
1 5 10 15

<210> SEQ ID No 7

<211> LENGTH: 117

<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial

<220> FEATURE:

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Nucleotide sequence for GPI

<400> SEQUWCE: 7
atcgatccaa ataaaggaag tggaaccacc tcaggtacta Cccgtcttct atctgggcac

acgtgtttca cgttgacagg tttgcttggg acgctagtaa ccatgggctt gctgact

<210> SEQ ID No 8

<211> LENGTH: 39

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial

<220> FEATURE:

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Amino acid sequence for GPI

<400> SEQUENCE: 8

lie Asp Pro Asn Lys Gly Sex Gly Thr Thr Ser Gly Thr Thr Arg Leu
1 5 10 15

Lem sex Gly His Thr Cys Phe Thr Lem Thr Gly Leu Lem Gly Thr Leu
20 25 30

Val Thr Met Gly Leu Leu Thr
35

<210> SEQ ID NO 9

<211> LENGTH: 93

<212> TYPE: DNA

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial

<220> FEATURE:

<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Nucleotide sequence for GCN4

<400> SEQUENCE: 9
atgaagcaga tcgaggacaa gatcgaggag atcctgagca agatctacca catcgagaac
gagatcgcca ggatcaagaa gctgatcggc gag

<210> SEQ ID No 10

<211> LENGTH: 31

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Artificial

<220> FEATURE:
<223> OTHER INFORMATION: Amino acid sequence for GCN4

<400> SEQUENCE: 10

Met Lys Gln Ile Glu Asp Lys Ile Glu Glu Ile Leu Ser Lys Ile Tyr
1 5 10 15

His 115 Glu Asn Glu 116 Ala Arg Ile Lys Lys Leu 116 Gly Glu
20 25 30

60

117

60

93

Jan. 3], 2019
US 2019/0031721 A1 Jan. 31,2019
14

scoutinued
actaaccttg ttcctacaat agatcaaatt agctgcaagc aaacagagct cgcattagac 600
ttggcgttgt ctaagtatct gtctgatctg ctctttgttt tcggacctaa cttacaggat 660
ccagtctcta attccatgac tatccaagca atatctcaag catttggggg caattacgaa 720
accttactga gaacgcttgg ttacgcgacc gaggacttcg acggcctttt agaaagtgat 780
agcataacag gccagatagt ctatgtagat ctcagtagct attacataat agtaagggtg 34o
tattttccca tactaacaga gatccaacag gcttatgtgc aggagttgct tccagtgagt 900
:ctaatascg ataattcaga atggatcagc attgtcccga atttcgtgct gattaggaac 960

acgctgattt caaatataga agtcaagtac tgcttaatca ccaagaaaag tgtgatttgt 1020
aatcaggact atgctacacc catgacggct agcgtgagag aatgcttgac aggatccaca 1000
gataagtgcc caagggagtt agtagtctca tcccatgttc caagatttgc cctctcagga 1140
ggagtcttgt ttgcaaattg tataagtgtg acatgtcagt gtcagactac tgggagggca 1200
atatctcaat caggggaaca gacactactg atgattgaca atactacctg cacaacagtt 1250
gttctaggaa acataatcat aagccttgga aaatatttgg gatcaataaa ttacaattct 1320
gagagcattg ctgttgggcc accagtctat acagacaaag ttgatatctc aagtcagata 1300
tctagtatga atcaatcact acaacaatct aaggattaca ttaaagaagc tcaaaagatc 1440
ttggacactg tgaatccgtc gttg 1454
<210> SEQ ID NO 2

<211> LENGTH: 483

<212> TYPE: PRT

<213> ORGANISM: Hendra Virus

<400> SEQUENCE: 2

Met Ala Thr G111 Glu Val Arg Leu Lysl cys Leu Leu cys Gly Ile Ile
1 5 1o 15

Val Leu Val Leu Se: Leu Glu 61}! Leu Gly Ile Leu His Ty: Glu Lys
20 25 30

Leu Se: Lys 11s Gly Leu Val Lys Gly Ile Th: Arg Lys Ty: Lys Ile
35 4o 45

Lys Se: Asn Pro Leu Thr Lys Asp 11s Val Ile Lys Met Ils P:o Asn
so 55 50

Val Se: Asn Val Ser Lys Cys Thr Gly Thr Val Met Glu Asn Ty: Lys
65 '70 75 80

Se: Arg Leu Th: Gly Ile Leu Ser Fro Ile Lys Gly Ala Ile Glu Leu
95 90 95

Ty: Asn Asn Asn Th: His Asp Leu Val Gly Asp Val Lys Leu Ala 61}!
100 105 110

Val Val Met Ala G1}! 119 Ala Ile Gly Ile Ala Th): Ala Ala Gln 116
115 120 125

Thr Ala Gly Val Ala Lsu Ty: Glu Ala Met Lys Asn Ala Asp Asn no
130 135 140

A511 Lys Leu Lysl Ser Se: Ile Glu 5e: Th: Asn Glu Ala Val Val Lys
145 150 155 160

Leu Gln Glu Thr Ala Glu Lys Th): Val Tyr Val Leu Thr Ala Leu 6111
165 170 175

Asp Ty: 11e Asn Thr Asn Leu Val Pro Th: Ile Asp Gln Ils Se: W5
180 185 190
US 2019/0031721A1

addition, the data indicates that sF could be used as a
diagnostic tool for the detection of anti-HeV or anti-NiV
antibodies from animal and human sources.

TABLE 1

 

Summary of different mouse immunizations with various sF
protein preparations. Balb/c mice were primed wim the
indicated antigen and subsequently boosted 3 times with
a different 5 protein amnity puriﬁed sF antigen (in some

cases the S-peptide tagged was removed) with 28 days
intervals. Mice were bled 10 days aiter each boost

immunization. Serum Were collected and pooled.

 

Immunizations Cross
Mouse No. Primed antigen 1x Boost antigen 3x reaotive
3 and 4 Hev sF s tagged l-iev sF s mgged Yes
5 and 6 Hev sF s tagged l-iev sFrGCN untagged Yes
7 and s Niv sF GPI s tagged Niv sFrGCN untagged Yes

 

TABLE 2

 

Senim neutralization of Niv and Hev. Serum from mouse
immunized wim the indicated proteins were serially diluted
in a 96-well plate in EMEM and mixed with 200 TCIDSO of

either Hev or Niv for 30 min at 37° c. 2 x 10" Vero
cells were added to each well, incubated for 3 days at
37° c. and observed for signs of viral cytopathic eireet

(CPE). The semm titer was determined as the higiest dilution

in which viral CPE was fully neutralized.

 

Neutralization titer Serum dilution

 

 

13

Jan. 31, 2019

Example 5

Sedimentation Equilibrium Experiments

[0119] Materials and Methods. Analytical ultiacentrifuga-
tion measurements were performed on a Beckman XL-A
Optima analytical ultracentrifuge with an An-60 Ti rotor at
4° C. Protein samples were dialyzed overnight into PBS with
0.01% Triton X-100 buﬂer, loaded at initial concentrations
of 0.75, 1.5 and 3 mg/ml, and analyzed at rotor speeds of
6,000 and 7,500 rpm. Data were acquired at two wave-
lengths per rotor speed and were ﬁt using the program
NONLIN to a single species model of the natural logarithm
of the absorbance versus radial distance squared. (Johnson et
a1, (1981) Biophys, J. 36(3): 575-88.) Solvent density and
protein partial speciﬁc volume parameters were calculated
taking into account the solvent and protein composition,
respectively. (Laue et all (1992) Royal Society of Chemistry,
Cambridge, United Kingdom.)

[0120] Results. Sedimentation equilibrium measurements
were carried out to determine the oligomeric state of the
puriﬁed HeV sF GCN, The protein is trimeric, with an
apparent molecular mass of ~215 kDa (FIG. 9). There was
no systematic dependence of apparent molecular mass on
protein concentration over a 4-fold range of protein concen-
tration studied.

[0121] It should be understood that the foregoing discus-
sion and examples merely present a detailed description of

Mouse No. Immunized with i-iev Niv certain preferred embodiments. It therefore should be appar-
ent to those of ordinary skill in the art that various modiﬁ-
5 HeVsF GCN 1:10 1:10 , 4 . .
6 HeV 5F 1:40 1:20 cations and equivalents can be made Without departing from
7 NW sF GCN 1:5 12160 the spirit and scope of the invention A11 journal articles,
8 NWSF GP] (15 1240 other references atents and atent a lications that are
control SARS CoV <1:5 <1:5 , , , j P l ‘1’ ‘ pp .
identiﬁed in this patent application are incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
SEQUENCE LISTING
<160> NUMBER OF SEQ ID NOS: 12
(210) SEQ ID NO 1
(211) LENGTH: 1464
<212> TYPE: DNA
<213> ORGANISM: Kendra Virus
<400> SEQUENCE: 1
atggctacac aagaggtcag gctaaagtgt ttgctctgtg ggatcatagt tctggttttg 60
tcattagaag ggccagggat actacattat gagaaactta gtaagatagg gctggttaaa 120
ggtattacaa gaaagtacaa gattaagagt aaccctttga ccaaggatat tgtgatcaaa 130
atgatcccta atgtctcgaa tgtctcaaag tgcaccggga ctgttatgga gaattacaaa 240
agcagactca cagggattct ctcaccaatc aaaggcgcca tcgaactgta caataataac 300
acgcatgacc tagttggtga tgtcaagctt gcaggtgtgg tgatggcagg gattgcaatc 350
gggatagcta ctgctgcaca aaccacagca ggcgttgcct tacatgaggc aatgaagaac 420
gcagacaata tcaataaact caagagcagc atagagtcta caaatgaggc tgttgtcaaa 480
teacaggaaa cagctgagaa aacagtctac gtccttactg ctcttcaaga ttacatcaac 54o
US 2019/0031721 A1
11

NiV antﬂor HeV In some embodiments, the polypeptide is
used to isolate antibodies. By way of example, polypeptides
may be bound to an aﬂinity matrix.

[0103] By way of further example, the nucleic acid of the
present invention can be used to transform and/transfect
cells to recombinantly produce the polypeptides and/or
antibodies of the present invention. The nucleic acids may
further be utilized to treat an infected subject. By way of
example, the nucleic acids can be used in inhibiting gene
expression. The nucleic acids of the present invention may
also be used, for example, to determine if a subject is
infected with NiV and/or HeV. By way of example, this can
be achieved using methods of radiolabeled hybridization.
[0104] By way of further example, the antibodies of the
present invention can be used to recognize an infection by
NiV and/or HeV By way of example, the antibodies can
recognize native F glycoprotein as an antigen. The antibod-
ies of the present invention can also be used to ﬁght an
infection by NiV and/or HeV. By way of example, human-
ized antibodies or antibody fragments or monoclonal anti-
bodies can employ a subject’s own immune response to an
NiV and/or HeV infection. By way of further example, the
antibodies of the present invention may be coupled to a
cytolcine or a toxin or an enzyme or a marker to assist in
treating and detecting an infection.

[0105] Further aspects of the present invention relate to
diagnostic assays. The present invention is of use with many
assays known in the art. Those skilled in the art will
recognize the wide array of research based uses for the
polypeptides, nucleic acids and antibodies of the present
invention. The polypeptides, antibodies and nucleic acids of
the present invention may, for example, be labeled, such as
with a radioactive, chemiluminescent, ﬂuorescent and/or
dye molecules. The antibodies, nucleic acids and polypep-
tides of the present invention lend themselves to use in
assays for example DNA assays (such as Southern blotting),
RNA assays (such as northern blotting), protein assays (such
as westem blotting), chromatographic assays (such as gas,
liquid, HPLC, size-exclusion), immunoassays (such as
ELISA) and structural assays (such as crystallography and
NMR spectroscopy). The antibodies, polypeptides and
nucleic acids of the present invention may further be used as
probes. Assays which amplify the signals from a probe are
also known to those skilled in the art.

Diagnostic Kits of F
Glycoprotein

Comprising Soluble Forms

[0106] Another aspect of the invention is directed toward
use of the sF glycoprotein as part of a kit used to detect the
presence of Hendra or Nipah virus. Kits of the invention
include one or more containers comprising by way of
example, and not limitation, nucleic acids encoding a HeV
or NiV sF glycoprotein or combinations thereof, a HeV or
NiV sF glycoprotein or combinations thereof and/or anti-
bodies of the invention and instructions for use in accor-
dance with any of the methods of the invention described
herein. The sF glycoproteins and/or antibodies of the inven-
tion may be used in a variety of immunoassays for Hendra
and Nipah virus. In one embodiment, recombinant sF gly-
coprotein serves to ﬁinction as an antigen for the purposes
of detecting antibody in biological samples. The containers
may be unit doses, bulk packages (e.g., multi-dose pack-
ages) or sub-unit doses. The kits of this invention are in
suitable packaging. Also contemplated are packages for use

Jan. 31, 2019

in combination with a speciﬁc device, such as an inhaler,
nasal administration device or an infusion device. A kit may
have a sterile access port. The container may also have a
sterile access port, Kits may optionally provide additional
components such as buffers and interpretive information,
[0107] Without further description, it is believed that a
person of ordinary skill in the art can, using the preceding
description and the following illustrative examples, make
and utilize the invention and practice the claimed methods.
For example, a skilled artisan would readily be able to
determine the adminstration of the food product of the
present invention. The following working examples there-
fore, speciﬁcally point out the illustrative embodiments of
the invention, and are not to be constnied as limiting in any
way the remainder of the disclosure.

EXAMPLES

[0108] All of the sF constructs described in the examples
below were engineered using a modiﬁed version of the
commercially available expression vector pcDNA3.1 Hy go
(+) (lnvitrogen Corp). The Hygromycin selection marker
allows for selection of successfully transfected cells in the
presence of the Geneticin (G418) antibiotic. The pcDNA 3.1
Hygro (+) was modiﬁed by incorporating the enhanced
cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter region from phCMV l
(Gelantis). This enhanced CMV promoter allows for high
expression of the sequences inserted into the backbone of
the pcDNA3.1 Hygro(+) vector. The addition of nucleic acid
sequence to encode for an S-peptide sequence (SEQ ID NO:
5) facilitated puriﬁcation of the released sF glycoprotein.
Further nucleic acids sequences were introduced in some
versions that would result in encoding additional peptide
regions, such as a GPI-Phospholipase D cleavage site (SEQ
ID NO: 7) a trimeric GCN4 motif (SEQ ID NO: 9) and a
Factor Xa cleavage site (SEQ ID NO: 11). Expression
plasmid constructs were generated with these nucleic acid
sequences and used to generate stable cell lines that express
the various versions of the proteins. The S-peptide 13 amino
acid sequence (Novagen) was added to the C-terminus in all
constructs. The S-peptide expression facilitates puriﬁcation
by S-protein agarose (Novagen), as well as immuno-detec-
tion by anti S—peptide antibodies.

Example 1

Production HeV sF Glycoprotein Timer and
Detection by Size Exclusion Chromatography

[0109] Materials and Methods. 293T cells were trans-
fected with the modiﬁed pcDNA 3,1 Hygro (+) vector
containing an insert to encode for the ﬁrst 488 amino acids
of the F glycoprotein from HeV, followed by an S-peptide
sequence. Selection for transfection was performed using
Geneticin (G418), and surviving cells were maintained in
the presence of G4 1 8 using standard tissue culture protocols.
Cells and media were harvested by standard protocols. The
resulting solutions were resolved by size exclusion chroma-
tography, using a SuperdexTM 200 10/300 gel ﬁltration
column, with 400 [.LL fractions collected.

[0110] Results. The elutiori proﬁle by gel ﬁltration shows
a putative trimer peak that elutes at ~299 kDA, a higher
molecular weight species with a peak of ~552 kDa, and
larger aggregates that elute near the void volume (Vo) (FIG.
1).
US 2019/0031721A1

Example 2

Production of NiV sF Glycoprotein by
Phospholipase D Cleavage

[0111] Materials and methods. As secretion of native NiV
sF was poor, a modiﬁed version of NiV sF was engineered,
whereby a glycoylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor signal
sequence was appended to the NiV sF nucleotide sequence.
HeLa-PLD cells are a modiﬁed version of HeLa cells that
stably express Phospholipase D (PLD) (Mann (2004) Bio-
chem. J. 378: 641-648). PLD then speciﬁcally cleaves the
phospho-glycerol bond in GPI-anchored proteins. This
results in the release of GPI-linked proteins from the anchor-
ing membrane. This mechanism then causes secretion of the
previously GPI-anchored NiV sF GPI from the HeLa PLD
cells.

[0112] HeLa-PLD cells were transfected with the modiﬁed
pcDNA 3.1 Hygro (+) vector containing an insert to encode
for the ﬁrst 488 amino acids of the F glycoprotein from NiV,
followed by an S-peptide sequence and then a GP] sequence
to allow for PLD cleavage, Selection for transfection was
performed using Geneticin (G418), and surviving cells were
maintained in the presence of G418 using standard tissue
culture protocols. Cells and media were harvested by stan-
dard protocols. The resulting solutions were resolved by size
exclusion chromatography, using a SuperdexTM 200 10/300
gel ﬁltration column, with 400 [,LL fractions collected. 5 [LL
samples of each fraction were denatured and resolved by
BN-PAGE. The resulting gel was transferred to a membrane,
and following standard blocking and washing protocols, was
probed with antibodies to the S-peptide sequence that are
conjugated to HRP to allow for smndard chemiluminescent
detection.

[0113] Results. The elution proﬁle from the gel ﬁltration of
the NiV sF GPI construct shows a putative timer peak that
elutes at ~186 kDa. a higher molecular weight species with
a peak of ~357 kDa, and larger aggregates that elute near the
void volume (V0) (FIG. 2A),

Example 3

Stabilization of HeV and NiV sF Glycoprotein
Timers by GCN4 Motif

[0114] Materials and Methods. 293T cells were trans-
fected with the modiﬁed pcDNA 3.1 Hygro (+) vector
containing an insert to encode for the ﬁrst 488 amino acids
of the F glycoprotein from NiV or HeV, followed by a GCN
sequence, then a Factor Xa cleavage sequence and then an
S-peptide sequence, Selection for transfection was per-
formed using Geneticin (G418), and surviving cells were
maintained in the presence of G418 using standard tissue
culture protocols. Cells and media were harvested by stan-
dard protocols. The resulting solutions were resolved by size
exclusion chromatography, using a SuperdexTM 200 10/300
gel ﬁltration column, with 400 [,LL fractions collected. 5 [LL
samples of each fraction were denatured and resolved by
BN-PAGE. The resulting gel was transferred to nitrocellu-
lose paper, and following standard blocking and washing
protocols, was probed with antibodies to the S-peptide
sequence that are conjugated to HRP to allow for standard
chemiluminescent detection.

[0115] Results. Expression and secretion of HeV and NiV
sF glycoproteins containing a GCN4 motif was improved by

12

Jan. 31, 2019

at least 10-fold than their respective wild-type sF cells. This
indicates the GCN4 motif affects codon optimization and
stabilization of the sF.

[0116] Differences can also be seen in the elution proﬁles
between wild type sF and sF-GCN, The higher oligomeric
species observed in the wild-type sF proﬁles was absent in
the sF-GCN. A high aggregate species and a single putative
trimer peak that elute at approximately 327 and 306 kDa was
observed for HeV and NiV sF-GCN, respectively (FIG, 3A
and FIG. 4A). The aggregate species for HeV sF-GCN was
much lesser as compared to all the other sF. This suggests
the timer stabilization by the GCN motif eliminates higher
oligomeric forms that present in the non-GCN sF. Native gel
analysis using the Blue Native (BN) PAGE system (Invit-
rogen) of all the sF and the fractions from all gel ﬁltrations
show corresponding sizes of the timer species (FIGS. 2-4B
and FIG. 5), except for NiV sF GPI, which has a higher
apparent molecular mass in Native gel as compared to the
gel ﬁltration analysis (FIG. 4).

Example 4

HeV and NiV sF Glycoproteins are lmmunogenic
in Mice and can Elicit Cross-Reactive and
Neutralizing Polyclonal Antibody Responses

[0117] Materials and Methods. HeV sF S tagged and
sF-GCN, and NiV sF-GPI S tagged and sF-GCN were used
to immunize Balb/C mice. Each mouse was bled prior to
immunization to obtain serum as negative control. Each
mouse was primed and boosted 3 times with different sF
preparations as indicated in Table 1. Each immunization was
performed with 10 ug of protein using TiterMax® Gold
Adjuvant (Sigma) with 28 days intervals. The mice were
bled 10 days post immunization and serum samples were
harvested. The serum collected from the second and third
boost were pooled and examined by ELISA, The sF immu-
nized mouse sera were also tested for its ability to immu-
noprecipitate full length untagged HeV and NiV F. The sF
immunized mouse sera were also tested for an ability to
neutralize NiV pseudotyped retroviral luciferase reporter
virions.

[0118] HeV and NiV F-speciﬁc cross-reactive antibody
was observed in all mice as indicated in the ELISA assay
(FIG. 6A and 6B) and as demonstrated by the immunopre-
cipitation assay conducted with full-length HeV and NiV F
(FIG. 7). A lower titer antibody response against the GCN
tail was evident when a non-related (HIV-1 envelope gly-
coprotein-GCN) protein was used to coat the plate (FIG.
5C). Mice that were immunized with the non GCN sF
showed no reactivity against HIV-1 envelope-GCN. Neu-
tralizing and cross-reactive neutralizing antibodies were also
generated as indicated by the neutralization of luciferase
gene encoding retrovirus pseudotyped with NiV F and G
entry assay. The assay was carried out using serum dilutions
(Table 2) from mice immunized with the sF-GCN glyco-
proteins to block entry of NiV and HeV live virus (FIG. 8).
This also indicates that mice immunized with these prepa-
rations of sF may be used to generate murine monoclonal
antibodies speciﬁc for F, some of which would be expected
to be cross-reactive. The results indicate that sF glycoprotein
preparations are immunogenic, will elicit antibodies that can
recognize native full-length F glycoproteins, will elicit
cross-reactive antibodies and will elicit cross-reactive virus-
neutralizing antibodies when administer as a vaccine. 1n
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 3 0f 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

327 KDa

 

 

 

 

   

%
§
0
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 25 27
FRACTEON NUMBER
T236KD§
104808

//

720KDa

480K021

242K023

146K561

FIG. 3B
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 2 0f 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

V0
f 35mm 186K021

OD 280 nM

 

 

12 13 ‘24 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
FRACTEON NUMBER

FIG. 2A

i236KDa \

mebaf’
729m

480K136

 

FIG. 23
(19) United States
(12) Patent Application Publication (10) Pub. No.: US 2019/0031721 A1

CHAN et a].

US 20190031721A1

(43) Pub. Date: Jan. 31, 2019

 

(54)

(71)

(72)

(73)

(21)

(22)

(63)

(60)

SOLUBLE FORMS OF HENDRA AND NIPAH
VIRUS F GLYCOPROTEIN AND USES
THEREOF

Applicant: THE HENRY M. JACKSON
FOUNDATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF MILITARY
MEDICINE, INC., Bthesda. MD (US)

Inventors: Yee-peng CHAN, Bethesda, MD (US);
Christopher BRODER. Silver Spring,
MD (US)

THE HENRY M. JACKSON
FOUNDATION FOR THE
ADVANCEMENT OF MILITARY
MEDICINE, INC., Bethesda, MD (US)

Assignee:

Appl. NO: 16/055,429

Filed: Aug. 6, 2018

Related U.S. Application Data

Continuation of application No. 12/808,930, ﬁled on
May 12, 2011, now Pat, No. 10,040,825, ﬁled as
application No. PCT/US08/87719 on Dec. 19, 2008,

Provisional application No. 61/006,107, ﬁled on Dec,
19, 2007.

Publication Classiﬁcation

Int. Cl.
C07K 14/005
C07K 16/10
A61K 39/12
A61K 39/00
U.S. Cl.

(51)
(2006.01)
(2006.01)
(2006101)
(2006101)
(52)
C07K 14/005 (2013101); C07K 16/1027
(2013101); A61K 39/12 (201301); C12N
2760/18234 (2013.01); A61K 2039/6031
(2013.01); CIZN 2760/18222 (2013,01); A61K

2039/5115 (2013401)

(57) ABSTRACT

This invention relates to soluble forms of F glycopmtein
from Hendra and Nipah virus and to compositions compris-
ing soluble forms of F glycoprotein from Hendra and Nipah
virus. This invention further relates to soluble Oligomers of
F glycoprotein from Hendra and Nipah virus, This invention
also relates to nucleic acids encoding soluble forms of F
glycoprotein from Hendra and Nipah VinlS, This invention
also relates to diagnostic and therapeutic methods using the
soluble forms of F glycoprotein from Hendra and Nipah
virus. Further, this invention relates to antibodies, including
neutralizing antibodies, and to vaccines for the prevention,
diagnosis and treatment of infection by Hendra and Nipah
viruses,

Speciﬁcation includes 3 Sequence Listing.
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 1 0f 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

 

552 Km
2529 KBa

OD 280 nM

 

 

 

 

 

 

1:2 13 14 15 16 17 i8 19 20 2? 22 23 24 25 26
FRACTION NUMBER

FIG. 1
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 5 0f 9 US 2019/0031721 A

 

FIG. 5B

2/»

1236KDa
304803
720K031
480KDa
242KDa
146KDa

FIG. 5A
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 4 0f 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

305 KDa

OD 280 EM

 

 

 

51 12 13 14 15 16 17 i8 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 2?
FRACTSON NUMBER

FIG. 4A

1 23616352
$048M

//

720KDa

480KDa

242KD8

€46KDa

ﬁ/ﬂ/

 

FIG. 4B
Patent Application Publication

3 000

3 000

100/ SF GCN UNTAGGED

Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 6 of 9

 

r-WVVV1

10000 100000
DILUTiON ()LOG

1000000

FIG. 6A

HeV SF GCN UNTAGGED

 

10000 100000
DILUTiON (H08

1006000

FIG. 68

H014 ENVELOPE-SON

30000

100000
DILUTiON ()LOG

FIG 6C

 

1 000000

*- MOUSEE
W MOUSE4
+ MOUSES
-~ MOUSES
+ MOUSE?

4* MOUSEB

4* ANTI F1

~ ~ ANT! 8

4- POOLED PREBLEED

  

+ MOUSES
+ 00008534
W MOUSE 5
~ MOUSEG
~~ MOUSE
+ MOUSES
W ANT! F1

- ~ ANT! 8

+ POOLED PRE—BLEED

    
   
   
   
   
   
     

 
 
   
     
   
   
   
   
   

  

4- MOUSEB
+ MOUSEA

- MOUSES

m MOUSEé

w MOUSE?

-* MOUSE8

-*- ANTS F1

- - ANT! S

~v~ POOLED PRESLEEB

US 2019/0031721A1
Patent Application Publication Jan. 31, 2019 Sheet 7 0f 9 US 2019/0031721 A1

-VE

yx
Er}
<3:
(I)
k
LL no
:3:
:5:
8.0
w
(Y)
Lu
>. k
I
no CD
~
s- k
E5
3'5
E (O
1.5..
2
2

K03
64
